# Feats

Feats represent a special trick or ability a character has acquired
through training, luck, or as a quirk of his or her birth. They grant
characters abilities others lack, giving them an edge in the right
situation. While some specifically interact with a PC's race or class,
most can be taken by anyone who meets the prerequisites. The feats in
this book expand upon those in the *Pathfinder Roleplaying Game Core
Rulebook,*including a host of new combat feats and metamagic feats. In
addition, this chapter also introduces teamwork feats, which function
only when two characters with the same feat work together.

# Types of Feats

While most of the feats presented here are general, and have no special
rules governing them, some feats have a category associated with them
that involves special rules. This category is listed after the feat
name. The following types of feats can be found in this chapter.

## Combat Feats

Any feat designated as a combat feat can be selected as a fighter's
bonus feat. This designation does not restrict characters of other
classes from selecting these feats, assuming they meet the
prerequisites.

## [Metamagic Feats]

Metamagic feats allow spellcasters to modify and change their spells,
granting them new powers and effects. Such spells generally take up a
higher-level spell slot than the normal spell.

## [Teamwork Feats]

Teamwork feats grant large bonuses, but they only function under
specific circumstances. In most cases, these feats require an ally who
also possesses the feat to be positioned carefully on the battlefield.
Teamwork feats provide no bonus if the listed conditions are not met.
Note that allies who are paralyzed, stunned, unconscious, or otherwise
unable to act do not count for the purposes of these feats.

# Feat Descriptions

Feats are summarized on the table below. Note that the prerequisites and
benefits of the feats listed in this table are abbreviated for ease of
reference. See the feats' description for full details.

The following format is used for all feat descriptions.

**Feat Name**: The feat's name also indicates what subcategory, if any,
the feat belongs to, and is followed by a basic description of what the
feat does.

**Prerequisite**: A minimum ability score, another feat or feats, a
minimum base attack bonus, a minimum number of ranks in one or more
skills, or anything else required in order to take the feat. This entry
is absent if a feat has no prerequisites. A feat may have more than one
prerequisite.

**Benefit**: What a feat enables the character (“you” in the feat
description) to do. If a character has the same feat more than once, its
benefits do not stack unless indicated otherwise in the description.

**Normal**: What a character who does not have this feat is limited to
or restricted from doing. If not having the feat causes no particular
drawback, this entry is absent.

**Special**: Additional unusual facts about the feat.

Table: Feats

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Feat                Prerequisite              Benefits
  ------------------- ------------------------- ---------------------------
  [Additional         N/A                       Gain two additional
  Traits](#additional                           character traits
  -traits)                                      

  [Arcane             Arcane spellcaster,       Sacrifice a spell to make a
  Blast](#arcane-blas caster level 10th         ray attack
  t)                                            

  [Arcane             Arcane spellcaster,       Sacrifice a spell to gain
  Shield](#arcane-shi caster level 10th         deflection bonus to AC
  eld)                                          

  [Arcane             Cha 10 ; elf, half-elf,   Cast a 0-level spell 3
  Talent](#arcane-tal or gnome                  times per day as a
  ent)                                          spell-like ability

  [Aspect of the      Wild s hape class feature Gain one of four bestial
  Beast](#aspect-of-t                           advantages
  he-beast)                                     

  [Bashing            [Shie ld                  Make a free shield bash
  Finish]\*,  after a critical hit
  finish-combat)      [Two-Weapon               
                      Fighting](#two-weapon-fig 
                      hting),                   
                      base attack bonus +11     

  [Bloody             [Power                    Trade melee attack bonus
  Assault]\*,   for bleed damage
  assault)            base attack bonus +6      

  [Bodyguard]\*(#body [Combat                   Use attack of opportunity
  guard)              Reflexes](../feats.html#_ to add a bonus to adjacent
                      combat-reflexes)          ally's AC

  [In Harm's          [Bodyguard]   Take the damage of a
  Way]\*(#in-harm's-w                           successful attack upon an
  ay)                                           adjacent ally

  [Breadth of         Dwarf, elf, or gnome;     +2 bonus on all
  Experience](#breadt 100+ years old            [Knowledge](../skills/knowl
  h-of-experience)                              edge.html#_knowledge)
                                                and
                                                [Profession](../skills/prof
                                                ession.html#_profession)
                                                checks

  [Bull Rush          [Improved Bull            Attempt a bull rush on a
  Strike]\*(#bull-rus Rush](../feats.html#_impr successful critical hit
  h-strike)           oved-bull-rush),          
                      base attack bonus +9      

  [Charge             [Improved                 Make overrun as free action
  Through]\*(#charge- Overrun](../feats.html#_i while charging
  through)            mproved-overrun),         
                      base attack bonus +1      

  [Childlike](#childl Cha 13, halfling          +2 on
  ike)                                          [Disguise](../skills/disgui
                                                se.html#_disguise)
                                                checks to look like human
                                                child, take 10 on
                                                [Bluff](../skills/bluff.htm
                                                l#_bluff)
                                                checks

  [Cockatrice         [Medusa's                 Turn a target to stone with
  Strike]\*(#cockatri Wrath](../feats.html#_med a critical hit
  ce-strike)          usa-s-wrath),             
                      base attack bonus +16     

  [Combat             [Combat                   Increase threatened area
  Patrol]\*(#combat-p Reflexes](../feats.html#_ for attack of opportunity
  atrol)              combat-reflexes),         
                      [Mobility](../feats.html# 
                      _mobility),               
                      base attack bonus +5      

  [Cooperative        1 rank in any             +2 bonus on
  Crafting](#cooperat [Craft](../skills/craft.h [Craft](../skills/craft.htm
  ive-craftin)        tml#_craft)               l#_craft)
                      skill, any item creation  or
                      feat                      [Spellcraft](../skills/spel
                                                lcraft.html#_spellcraft)
                                                checks while
                                                workingtogether

  [Cosmopolitan](#cos N/A                       Read and speak two
  mopolitan)                                    additional languages

  [Covering           [Shield                   Provide cover to an ally
  Defense]\*(#coverin Focus](../feats.html#_shi with total defense
  g-defense)          eld-focus),               
                      base attack bonus +6      

  [Crippling          [Critical                 Whenever you score a
  Critical](#cripplin Focus](../feats.html#_cri critical hit, the target's
  g-critical)\*       tical-focus),             speed is halved
                      base attack bonus +13     

  [Crossbow           Dex 15, [Rapid            Reload crossbow as free
  Mastery]\*(#crossbo Reload](../feats.html#_ra action and make full
  w-mastery)          pid-reload),              attacks
                      [Rapid                    
                      Shot](../feats.html#_rapi 
                      d-shot)                   

  [Dastardly          Sneak attack +5d6         Deliver coup de grace to
  Finish]\*(#dastardl                           cowering or stunned target
  y-finish)                                     

  [Dazing             [Power                    Trade melee attack bonus to
  Assault]\*(#dazing- Attack](../feats.html#_po daze opponents
  assault)            wer-attack),              
                      base attack bonus +11     

  [Deep               Con 13, monk level 11,    Gain 2 temporary *ki* from
  Drinker](#deep-drin drunken *ki* class        drunken ki
  ker)                feature                   

  [Deepsight](#deepsi Darkvision 60 feet        Your darkvision has a range
  ght)                                          of 120 feet

  [Disarming          [Improved                 Attempt a disarm on a
  Strike]\*(#disarmin Disarm](../feats.html#_im successful critical hit
  g-strike)           proved-disarm),           
                      base attack bonus +9      

  [Disrupting         Dex 13, [Point-Blank      Ranged attacks increase
  Shot]\*(#disrupting Shot](../feats.html#_poin enemy's DC to cast spells
  -shot)              t-blank-shot),            
                      6th-level fighter         

  [Diviner's          [Spell                    +2 bonus on caster level
  Delving](#diviner's Focus](../feats.html#_spe checks with divinations
  -delvin)            ll-focus)                 
                      (divination)              

  [Eagle              Wis 13, keen senses       Ignore up to –5 due to
  Eyes]  racial trait              distance on visual
                                                [Perception](../skills/perc
                                                eption.html#_perception)
                                                checks

  [Eclectic](#eclecti Human                     Gain an additional favored
  c)                                            class

  [Eldritch           Str 15, natural weapons,  Natural weapons treated as
  Claws](#eldritch-cl base attack bonus +6      magic and silver
  aws)                                          

  [Elemental          Con 13, Wis 13, [Improved Deal 1d6 energy damage with
  Fist]\*(#elemental- Unarmed                   an unarmed strike
  fist)               Strike](../feats.html#_im 
                      proved-unarmed-strike),   
                      base attack bonus +8      

  [Elemental          N/A                       +1 bonus on save DCs for
  Focus](#elemental-f                           one energy type
  ocus)                                         

  [Greater Elemental  [Elemental                +1 bonus on save DCs for
  Focus]  one energy type
  mental-focus)                                 

  [Elven              Elf                       Reroll miss chance due to
  Accuracy]\*(#elven-                           concealment when using a
  accuracy)                                     bow

  [Enforcer]\*(#enfor [Intimidate](../skills/in Demoralize opponent as free
  cer)                timidate.html#_intimidate action when you inflict
                      )                         nonlethal damage
                      1 rank                    

  [Expanded           Caster level 1st, see     Add one or two spells to
  Arcana](#expanded-a feat                      list of spells known
  rcana)                                        

  [Extra              Bomb class feature        Throw two additional bombs
  Bombs](#extra-bombs                           per day
  )                                             

  [Extra              Discovery class feature   Gain one additional
  Discovery](#extra-d                           discovery
  iscovery)                                     

  [Extra              Hex class feature         Gain one additional hex
  Hex]                              

  [Extra Rage         Rage power class feature  Gain one additional rage
  Power](#extra-rage-                           power
  power)                                        

  [Extra              Revelation class feature  Gain one additional
  Revelation](#extra-                           revelation
  revelation)                                   

  [Extra Rogue        Rogue talent class        Gain one additional rogue
  Talent](#extra-rogu feature                   talent
  e-talent)                                     

  [Fast               Con 18, drunken *ki*      Drink as a swift action
  Drinker](#fast-drin class feature             
  ker)                                          

  [Fast               Con 13,                   Regain additional hit
  Healer](#fast-heale [Diehard](../feats.html#_ points when healing
  r)                  diehard),                 
                      [Endurance](./feats.html# 
                      _endurance)               

  [Favored            Favored enemy class       Bonus to CMD and AC when
  Defense](#favored-d feature                   attacked by favored enemy
  efense)                                       

  [Fight              Con 13; dwarf, half-orc,  Gain temporary hit points
  On]      or orc                    when reduced to 0

  [Focused            Int 13, [Precise          Add Int modifier on damage
  Shot]\*(#focused-sh Shot](../feats.html#_prec rolls with bows or
  ot)                 ise-shot)                 crossbows

  [Following          Dex 13, [Step             Move up to 10 feet as an
  Step]\*(#following- Up](../feats.html#_step-u immediate action
  step)               p)                        

  [Step Up and        [Following                Follow adjacent creature
  Strike]\*,   and attack as an immediate
  and-strike)         base attack bonus +6      action

  [Furious            Str 13, [Power            Do not take the [Power
  Focus]\*(#furious-f Attack](../feats.html#_po Attack](../feats.html#_powe
  ocus)               wer-attack),              r-attack)
                      base attack bonus         penalty on the first attack
                                                each round

  [Dreadful           Str 15, [Furious          Make a free
  Carnage]\*,   [Intimidate](../skills/inti
  l-carnage)          base attack bonus +11     midate.html#_intimidate)
                                                check when you knock down a
                                                foe

  [Gang               [Combat                   Flank an opponent if at
  Up]\*     Expertise](../feats.html# least two allies are
                      _combat-expertise)        adjacent to it

  [Team               Gang-Up, base attack      Aid another as a move
  Up]\*     bonus +6                  action with two adjacent
                                                allies

  [Gnome              Cha 13, gnome, gnome      Use *[mage
  Trickster](#gnome-t magic racial trait        hand](../spells/mageHand.ht
  rickster)                                     ml#_mage-hand)*
                                                and
                                                *[prestidigitation](../spel
                                                ls/prestidigitation.html#_p
                                                restidigitation)*
                                                once per day

  [Go                 Dex 13, Small size or     Make
  Unnoticed](#go-unno smaller                   [Stealth](../skills/stealth
  ticed)                                        .html#_stealth)
                                                check against flat-footed
                                                opponents during first
                                                round of combat

  [Groundling](#groun Cha 13, gnome, gnome      Speak with burrowing
  dlin)               magic racial trait        animals as spell-like
                                                ability

  [Heroic             [Diehard](../feats.html#_ Once per day, delay onset
  Defiance],                 of harmful condition for 1
  efiance)            base Fortitude save +8    round

  [Heroic             [Diehard](../feats.html#_ Once per day, gain new
  Recovery],                 saving throw against
  ecovery)            base Fortitude save +4    harmful condition requiring
                                                Fort save

  [Improved           [Perception](../skills/pe Ignore miss chance for less
  Blind-Fight]\*(#imp rception.html#_perception than total concealment
  roved-blind-fight)  )                         
                      10 ranks,                 
                      [Blind-Fight](../feats.ht 
                      ml#_blind-fight)          

  [Greater            [Perception](../skills/pe Total concealment is
  Blind-Fight]\*(#gre rception.html#_perception considered normal
  ater-blind-fight)   )                         concealment
                      15 ranks,                 
                      [Improved](#improved-blin 
                      d-fight)                  
                      [Blind-Fight](../feats.ht 
                      ml#_blind-fight)          

  [Improved Dirty     [Combat                   +2 bonus on dirty trick
  Trick]\*(#improved- Expertise](../feats.html# attempts, no attack of
  dirty-trick)        _combat-expertise)        opportunity

  [Greater Dirty      [Improved Dirty           Dirty trick penalty lasts
  Trick]\*(#greater-d Trick](#improved-dirty-tr 1d4 rounds
  irty-trick)         ick),                     
                      base attack bonus +6      

  [Improved           [Power                    +2 bonus on drag attempts,
  Drag]\*(#improved-d Attack](../feats.html#_po no attack of opportunity
  rag)                wer-attack)               

  [Greater            [Improved                 Enemies you drag provoke
  Drag]\*,     attacks of opportunity
  ag)                 base attack bonus +6      

  [Improved           [Combat                   +2 bonus on reposition
  Reposition]\*(#impr Expertise](../feats.html# attempts, no attack of
  oved-reposition)    _combat-expertise)        opportunity

  [Greater            [Improved                 Enemies you reposition
  Reposition]\*(#grea Reposition](#improved-rep provoke attacks of
  ter-reposition)     osition),                 opportunity
                      base attack bonus +6      

  [Improved Share     [Spellcraft](../skills/sp Spells affect both you and
  Spells](#improved-s ellcraft.html#_spellcraft your bonded creature
  hare-spells)        )                         
                      10 ranks, see feat        

  [Improved           [Combat                   +2 bonus on steal attempts,
  Steal]\*(#improved- Expertise](../feats.html# no attack of opportunity
  steal)              _combat-expertise)        

  [Greater            [Improved                 Enemies don't notice theft
  Steal]\*,  until after combat
  teal)               base attack bonus +6      

  [Improved           Wis 13, dwarf,            +4 bonus on
  Stonecunning](#impr stonecunning racial trait [Perception](../skills/perc
  oved-stonecunnin)                             eption.html#_perception)
                                                checks to notice unusual
                                                stonework

  [Stone              [Perception](../skills/pe Gain tremorsense 10 ft.
  Sense](#stone-sense rception.html#_perception 
  )                   )                         
                      10 ranks, Improved        
                      Stonecunning              

  [Ironguts](#irongut Con 13; dwarf, half-orc,  +2 on saves against nausea,
  s)                  or orc                    sickening, and ingested
                                                poisons

  [Ironhide](#ironhid Con 13; dwarf, half-orc,  +1 natural armor bonus to
  e)                  or orc                    AC

  [Keen               Wis 13, half-orc or orc   Gain the scent special
  Scent]                           ability

  [Smell              [Keen                     +4 on
  Fear]  Scent],      [Perception](../skills/perc
                      half-orc or orc           eption.html#_perception)
                                                checks to detect frightened
                                                creatures

  [*Ki*               [Improved                 Throw opponent into
  Throw]\* Trip](../feats.html#_impr adjacent square with a trip
                      oved-trip),               attack
                      [Improved Unarmed         
                      Strike](../feats.html#_im 
                      proved-unarmed-strike)    

  [Improved *Ki*      [Improved Bull            Throw opponent into
  Throw](#improved-ki Rush](../feats.html#_impr occupied square as a bull
  -throw)\*           oved-bull-rush),          rush
                      [KiThrow]      

  [Leaf               Cha 13, bardic            Gain benefits to bardic
  Singer](#leaf-singe performance, elf or       performance in forests and
  r)                  half-elf                  against fey

  [Light              [Acrobatic                Move normal speed in
  Step]  Steps](../feats.html#_acr difficult terrain
                      obatic-steps),            
                      [Nimble                   
                      Moves](../feats.html#_nim 
                      ble-moves),               
                      elf                       

  [Lingering          Bardic performance class  Bardic performance
  Performance](#linge ability                   continues for 2 rounds
  ring-performance)                             after you stop performing

  [Low                Dex 13, Small size or     +1 dodge bonus to AC
  Profile]\*(#low-pro smaller                   against ranged attacks
  file)                                         

  [Lucky              Halfling                  You may roll saving throw
  Halfling](#lucky-ha                           for an ally once per day
  lflin)                                        

  [Master             [Craft](../skills/craft.h +2 on
  Alchemist]               [Craft](../skills/craft.htm
  alchemist)          (alchemy) 5 ranks         l#_craft)
                                                (alchemy) checks, and you
                                                can create alchemical items
                                                and poisons faster

  [Minor Spell        Cast 4th-level spells     Cast 1st-level spell as
  Expertise](#minor-s                           spell-like ability 2/day
  pell-expertise)                               

  [Major Spell        [Minor Spell              Cast 5th-level or lower
  Expertise](#major-s Expertise](#minor-spell-e spell as spell-like ability
  pell-expertise)     xpertise),                2/day
                      cast 9th-level spells     

  [Missile            Dex 13, [Shield           Deflect one ranged attack
  Shield]\*(#missile- Focus](../feats.html#_shi per round with shield
  shield)             eld-focus)                

  [Ray                Dex 15, [Missile          Deflect one ranged touch
  Shield]\*, attack per round with
  ld)                 [Spellbreaker](../feats.h shield
                      tml#_spellbreaker)        

  [Mounted            [Mounted                  Apply shield bonus to
  Shield]\*(#mounted- Combat](../feats.html#_mo mount's AC
  shield)             unted-combat),            
                      [Shield                   
                      Focus](../feats.html#_shi 
                      eld-focus)                

  [Parry              [Spellcraft](../skills/sp Reflect a counterspelled
  Spell](#parry-spell ellcraft.html#_spellcraft spell back on its caster
  )                   )                         
                      15 ranks, [Improved       
                      Counterspell](../feats.ht 
                      ml#_improved-counterspell 
                      )                         

  [Parting            [Shot on the              Make a ranged attack when
  Shot]\*(#parting-sh Run](../feats.html#_shot- withdrawing
  ot)                 on-the-run),              
                      base attack bonus +6      

  [Pass for           Half-elf, half-orc, or    +10 on
  Human](#pass-for-hu halfling                  [Disguise](../skills/disgui
  man)                                          se.html#_disguise)
                                                checks to look like a human

  [Perfect            Dex 13, Wis 13, [Improved Roll twice for attacks with
  Strike]\*(#perfect- Unarmed                   monk weapons and take the
  strike)             Strike](../feats.html#_im better roll
                      proved-unarmed-strike),   
                      base attack bonus +8      

  [Point-Blank        [Weapon                   e attacks of opportunity
  Master](#point-blan Specialization](../feats. while firing one ranged
  k-master)\*         html#_weapon-specializati weapon
                      on)                       
                      with a ranged weapon      

  [Practiced          Tactician class feature   Use tactician ability one
  Tactician](#practic                           additional time per day
  ed-tactician)                                 

  [Preferred          [Spellcraft](../skills/sp Spontaneously cast a
  Spell](#preferred-s ellcraft.html#_spellcraft specific spell
  pell)               )                         
                      5 ranks, [Heighten        
                      Spell](../feats.html#_hei 
                      ghten-spell)              

  [Punishing          Con 13, Wis 13, [Improved Knock down or push back
  Kick]\*(#punishing- Unarmed                   foes with unarmed strikes
  kick)               Strike](../feats.html#_im 
                      proved-unarmed-strike),   
                      base attack bonus +8      

  [Pushing            Str 15, [Power            Push a foe back with a
  Assault]\*(#pushing Attack](../feats.html#_po two-handed weapon
  -assault)           wer-attack),              
                      base attack bonus +1      

  [Racial             Human                     Affected as though both
  Heritage](#racial-h                           human and another race
  eritage)                                      

  [Raging             Con 15, rage class        +2 bonus to Con when
  Vitality](#raging-v feature                   raging, and continue raging
  itality)                                      if unconscious

  [Razortusk](#razort Half-orc                  Gain bite attack
  usk)                                          

  [Rending            Str 13, two claw attacks, Deal 1d6 extra damage if
  Claws]\*(#rending-c base attack bonus +6      both claws hit
  laws)                                         

  [Repositioning      [Improved                 Attempt a reposition attack
  Strike]\*(#repositi Repostion](#improved-repo on a successful critical
  oning-strike)       sition),                  hit
                      base attack bonus +9      

  [Saving             [Shield                   Grant shield bonus to an
  Shield]\*(#saving-s Proficiency](../feats.htm adjacent ally
  hield)              l#_shield-proficiency)    

  [Second             [Combat                   Exchange later attacks to
  Chance]\*(#second-c Expertise](../feats.html# reroll missed first attack
  hance)              _combat-expertise),       
                      base attack bonus +6      

  [Improved Second    [Second                   Take a –5 penalty on later
  Chance]\*,  attacks to reroll missed
  -second-chance)     base attack bonus +11     attack

  [Shadow             Base attack bonus +1      Deal precision damage
  Strike]\*(#shadow-s                           against targets with
  trike)                                        concealment

  [Shared             Wis 13, half-elf          Grant friendly creatures a
  Insight](#shared-in                           +2 bonus on
  sight)                                        [Perception](../skills/perc
                                                eption.html#_perception)
                                                checks

  [Sharp              Keen senses racial trait  +4 racial bonus on
  Senses](#sharp-sens                           [Perception](../skills/perc
  es)                                           eption.html#_perception)
                                                checks

  [Shield of          Str 13, [Power            Reduce damage with a two
  Swings]\*(#shield-o Attack](../feats.html#_po handed weapon to gain a +4
  f-swings)           wer-attack),              shield bonus
                      base attack bonus +1      

  [Shield             [Shield                   +2 bonus to AC against
  Specialization]\*(# Focus](../feats.html#_shi criticals with one type of
  shield-specializati eld-focus),               shield
  on)                 4th-level fighter         

  [Greater Shield     [Greater Shield           +2 bonus to AC against
  Specialization](#gr Focus](../feats.html#_gre criticals, and negate
  eater-shield-specia ater-shield-focus),       critical hit once per day
  lization)\*         [Shield                   
                      Specialization](#shield-s 
                      pecialization),           
                      12th-level fighter        

  [Sidestep]\*(#sides Dex 13,                   Make 5-foot step
  tep)                [Dodge](../feats.html#_do immediately after an
                      dge),                     opponent misses
                      [Mobility](../feats.html# 
                      _mobility)                

  [Improved           Dex 15,                   [Sidestep]
  Sidestep]\*     without using your 5-foot
  ed-sidestep)                                  step on your next turn

  [Smash]\*   [Power                    Ignore 5 points of hardness
                      Attack](../feats.html#_po when breaking an object
                      wer-attack),              
                      half-orc                  

  [Sociable](#sociabl Cha 13, half-elf          Grant friendly creatures a
  e)                                            +2 bonus on
                                                [Diplomacy](../skills/diplo
                                                macy.html#_diplomacy)
                                                checks

  [Spell              [Spellcraft](../skills/sp Apply any metamagic feat to
  Perfection](#spell- ellcraft.html#_spellcraft one spell without penalty,
  perfection)         )                         up to 9th level
                      15 ranks, 3 metamagic     
                      feats                     

  [Spider             [Acrobatics](../skills/ac Walk on walls or ceilings
  Step] robatics.html#_acrobatics for half your slow fall
                      )                         distance
                      6 ranks,                  
                      [Climb](../skills/climb.h 
                      tml#_climb)               
                      6 ranks, 6th-level monk   

  [Cloud              [Spider                   *[Air
  Step]  Step],      walk](../spells/airWalk.htm
                      12th-level monk           l#_air-walk)*
                                                for half your slow fall
                                                distance

  [Stabbing           [Rapid                    Use arrow as a melee attack
  Shot]\*(#stabbing-s Shot](../feats.html#_rapi to push enemies back
  hot)                d-shot),                  
                      elf                       

  [Steel              Dwarf, hardy racial trait +4 racial bonus on saves
  Soul]                            against spells and
                                                spell-like abilities

  [Stone-Faced](#ston Dwarf                     +4 bonus on
  e-faced)                                      [Bluff](../skills/bluff.htm
                                                l#_bluff)
                                                checks to lie or conceal
                                                motives

  [Stone              Cha 13, bardic            Gain benefits to bardic
  Singer](#stone-sing performance, dwarf        performance underground and
  er)                                           against earth creatures

  [Stunning           [Power                    Trade melee attack bonus to
  Assault]\*(#stunnin Attack](../feats.html#_po stun opponents
  g-assault)          wer-attack),              
                      base attack bonus +16     

  [Summoner's         Eidolon class feature     Your eidolon gets a bonus
  Call](#summoner's-c                           when summoned
  all)                                          

  [Sundering          [Improved                 +9 Attempt a sunder attack
  Strike]\*(#sunderin Sunder](../feats.html#_im on a successful critical
  g-strike)           proved-sunder),           hit
                      base attack bonus         

  [Swift              [Combat                   +6 Attempt to aid another
  Aid]\*  Expertise](../feats.html# as a swift action
                      _combat-expertise),       
                      base attack bonus         

  [Taunt]     Cha 13, Small size or     Demoralize opponents with
                      smaller                   [Bluff](../skills/bluff.htm
                                                l#_bluff)
                                                instead of
                                                [Intimidate](../skills/inti
                                                midate.html#_intimidate)

  [Teleport           [Combat                   Teleporting creatures
  Tactician]\*(#telep Reflexes](../feats.html#_ provoke attacks of
  ort-tactician)      combat-reflexes),         opportunity
                      [Disruptive](../feats.htm 
                      l#_disruptive),           
                      [Spellbreaker](../feats.h 
                      tml#_spellbreaker)        

  [Tenacious          [Spell                    +2 to DC to dispel your
  Transmutation](#ten Focus](../feats.html#_spe transmutations
  acious-transmutatio ll-focus)                 
  n)                  (transmutation)           

  [Touch of           Wis 18, [Improved Unarmed Foes hit by unarmed strikes
  Serenity]\*(#touch- Strike](../feats.html#_im cannot attack or cast
  of-serenity)        proved-unarmed-strike),   spells
                      base attack bonus +8      

  [Trick              [Ride](../skills/ride.htm Automatically pass simple
  Riding]\*                  [Ride](../skills/ride.html#
  ding)               rank 9, [Mounted          _ride)
                      Combat](../feats.html#_mo skill checks
                      unted-combat)             

  [Mounted            [Ride](../skills/ride.htm Make a full attack if mount
  Skirmisher]\*                  moves its speed or less
  ted-skirmisher)     rank 14, [Trick           
                      Riding]     

  [Tripping           [Improved                 Attempt a trip attack on a
  Strike]\*(#tripping Trip](../feats.html#_impr successful critical hit
  -strike)            oved-trip),               
                      base attack bonus +9      

  [Under and          [Agile                    Failed grapples against you
  Over]\*(#under-and- Maneuvers](../feats.html# cause attacker to fall
  over)               _agile-maneuvers),        prone
                      Small size or smaller     

  [Underfoot]\*(#unde [Dodge](../feats.html#_do +4 on
  rfoot)              dge),                     [Acrobatics](../skills/acro
                      [Mobility](../feats.html# batics.html#_acrobatics)
                      _mobility),               checks to move past larger
                      Small size or smaller     opponents

  [Vermin             Wild empathy class        Target vermin with spells
  Heart](#vermin-hear feature                   as if they were animals
  t)                                            

  [War                Cha 13, bardic            Gain benefits to bardic
  Singer](#war-singer performance, half-orc or  performance on battlefields
  )                   orc                       and against orcs

  [Well-Prepared](#we Halfling                  Retrieve a specific mundane
  ll-prepared)                                  item from your person
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

  : Advanced Feats Table

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Metamagic Feats     Prerequisites             Benefits
  ------------------- ------------------------- ---------------------------
  [Bouncing           N/A                       Redirect a spell that had
  Spell](#bouncing-sp                           no effect on initial target
  ell)                                          

  [Dazing             N/A                       Daze creature with spell
  Spell](#dazing-spel                           damage
  l)                                            

  [Disruptive         N/A                       Target of spell must make
  Spell](#disruptive-                           concentration check to cast
  spell)                                        a spell in the next round

  [Ectoplasmic        N/A                       Spell fully affects
  Spell](#ectoplasmic                           incorporeal and ethereal
  -spell)                                       creatures

  [Elemental          N/A                       Inflict energy damage
  Spell](#elemental-s                           instead of regular spell
  pell)                                         damage

  [Focused            N/A                       Increase save DC of spell
  Spell](#focused-spe                           for one target in a group
  ll)                                           

  [Intensified        N/A                       Increase maximum damage
  Spell](#intensified                           dice by 5 levels
  -spell)                                       

  [Lingering          N/A                       Instantaneous area effect
  Spell](#lingering-s                           spell lasts for 1 round
  pell)                                         

  [Merciful           N/A                       Spell inflicts nonlethal
  Spell](#merciful-sp                           damage instead of lethal
  ell)                                          

  [Persistent         N/A                       Creatures who saved against
  Spell](#persistent-                           a spell must save again
  spell)                                        

  [Reach              N/A                       Increase spell range to
  Spell](#reach-spell                           higher range category
  )                                             

  [Selective          [Spellcraft](../skills/sp Exclude targets from an
  Spell](#selective-s ellcraft.html#_spellcraft area effect spell
  pell)               )                         
                      10 ranks                  

  [Sickening          N/A                       Sicken creature with spell
  Spell](#sickening-s                           damage
  pell)                                         

  [Thundering         N/A                       Deafen creature with spell
  Spell](#thundering-                           damage
  spell)                                        
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

  : Advanced Metamagic Feats Table

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Teamwork Feats      Prerequisites             Benefits
  ------------------- ------------------------- ---------------------------
  [Allied             Caster level 1st          +2 bonus on level checks to
  Spellcaster](#allie                           overcome spell resistance
  d-spellcaster)                                

  [Coordinated        N/A                       +2 bonus to CMD
  Defense]\*(#coordin                           
  ated-defense)                                 

  [Coordinated        N/A                       +2 bonus on combat maneuver
  Maneuvers]\*(#coord                           checks
  inated-maneuvers)                             

  [Duck and           N/A                       Take ally's result on
  Cover](#duck-and-co                           Reflex saving throw
  ver)                                          

  [Lookout]\*(#lookou N/A                       Act in surprise round if
  t)                                            ally can act

  [Outflank]\*(#outfl Base attack bonus +4      Gain +4 bonus on attack
  ank)                                          rolls when flanking

  [Paired             N/A                       +4 bonus on attacks of
  Opportunists]\*(#pa                           opportunity
  ired-opportunists)                            

  [Precise            Dex 13, base attack bonus Deal +1d6 points of
  Strike]\*(#precise- +1                        precision damage with melee
  strike)                                       attacks

  [Shield             [Shield                   Increase your shield bonus
  Wall]\*(#shield-wal Proficiency](../feats.htm to AC
  l)                  l#_shield-proficiency)    

  [Shielded           N/A                       +4 bonus on concentration
  Caster](#shielded-c                           checks
  aster)                                        

  [Swap               N/A                       Switch places with an
  Places]\*(#swap-pla                           adjacent ally
  ces)                                          
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

  : Advanced Teamwork Feats Table

\* This is a combat feat and can be selected as a fighter bonus feat.

## Additional Traits

You have more traits than normal.

**Benefit:** You gain two character traits of your choice (see Chapter
8). These traits must be chosen from different lists, and cannot be
chosen from lists from which you have already selected a character
trait. You must meet any additional qualifications for the character
traits you choose.

## Allied Spellcaster (Teamwork)

With the aid of an ally, you are skilled at piercing the protections of
other creatures with your spells.

**Prerequisite:** Caster level 1st.

**Benefit:** Whenever you are adjacent to an ally who also has this
feat, you receive a +2 competence bonus on level checks made to overcome
spell resistance. If your ally has the same spell prepared (or known
with a slot available if they are spontaneous spellcasters), this bonus
increases to +4 and you receive a +1 bonus to the caster level for all
level-dependent variables, such as duration, range, and effect.

## Arcane Blast

You can convert any spell into an attack.

**Prerequisites:** Arcane spellcaster, caster level 10th.

**Benefit:** As a standard action, you can sacrifice a prepared spell or
unused spell slot of 1st level or higher and transform it into a ray,
targeting any foe within 30 feet as a ranged touch attack. This attack
deals 2d6 points of damage plus an additional 1d6 points of damage for
every level of the spell or spell slot you sacrificed. 0-level spells
may not be sacrificed in this manner.

## Arcane Shield

You can convert any spell into a defense.

**Prerequisites:** Arcane spellcaster, caster level 10th.

**Benefit:** As a immediate action, you can sacrifice a prepared spell
or unused spell slot of 1st level or higher and gain a deflection bonus
to AC equal to the level of the spell or spell slot you sacrificed for 1
round. 0-level spells may not be sacrificed in this manner.

## Arcane Talent

Magic is in your blood, and at your fingertips.

**Prerequisites:** Cha 10; elf, half-elf, or gnome.

**Benefit:** Choose a 0-level spell from the sorcerer/wizard spell list.
You can cast this spell three times per day as a spell-like ability. The
caster level is equal to your character level. The save DC is 10 + your
Charisma modifier.

## Aspect of the Beast

Whether by magic or a curse of your blood, some part of you is more
beast than man.

**Prerequisite:** wild shape class feature, see Special.

**Benefit:** Your bestial nature manifests itself in one of the
following ways. You choose the manifestation when you choose the feat,
and then you cannot change it.

*Night Senses (Ex)*: If your base race has normal vision, you gain
low-light vision. If your base race has low-light vision, you gain
darkvision out to a range of 30 feet. If your base race has darkvision,
the range of your darkvision increases by 30 feet.

*Claws of the Beast (Ex)*: You grow a pair of claws. These claws are
primary attacks that deal 1d4 points of damage (1d3 if you are Small).

*Predator's Leap (Ex)*: You can make a running jump without needing to
run 10 feet before you jump.

*Wild Instinct (Ex)*: You gain a +2 bonus on initiative checks and a +2
bonus on [Survival](../skills/survival.html#_survival) skill checks.

**Special:** A character that has contracted lycanthropy can take this
feat without having to meet the prerequisites. A ranger who selects the
natural weapon combat style can take this feat without having to meet
the prerequisites (even if he does not select [Aspect of the
Beast] as a bonus feat).

## Bashing Finish (Combat)

You follow a powerful blow from your weapon with an opportunistic bash
from your shield.

**Prerequisites:** [Improved Shield
Bash](../feats.html#_improved-shield-bash), [Shield
Master](../feats.html#_shield-master), [Two-Weapon
Fighting](../feats.html#_two-weapon-fighting), base attack bonus +11.

**Benefit:** Whenever you score a critical hit with a melee weapon, you
can make a shield bash attack against the same target using the same
bonus as a free action.

## Bloody Assault (Combat)

Sacrificing accuracy, you can inflict bloody wounds that are slow to
heal.

**Prerequisites:** Str 13, [Power Attack](../feats.html#_power-attack),
base attack bonus +6.

**Benefit:** You can choose to take a –5 penalty on all melee attack
rolls and combat maneuver checks to inflict 1d4 points of bleed damage
with your weapon melee attacks, in addition to the normal damage dealt
by the weapon. A creature continues to take bleed damage every round at
the start of its turn. Bleed damage can be stopped by a DC 15
[Heal](../skills/heal.html#_heal) check or through any magical healing.
Bleed damage from this feat does not stack with itself. You must choose
to use this feat before making the attack roll, and its effects last
until your next turn (although the bleeding lasts until healed, as
normal).

## Bodyguard (Combat)

Your swift strikes ward off enemies attacking nearby allies.

**Prerequisite:** [Combat Reflexes](../feats.html#_combat-reflexes).

**Benefit:** When an adjacent ally is attacked, you may use an attack of
opportunity to attempt the aid another action to improve your ally's AC.
You may not use the aid another action to improve your ally's attack
roll with this attack.

**Normal:** Aid another is a standard action.

## Bouncing Spell (Metamagic)

You can direct a failed spell against a different target.

**Benefit:** Whenever a bouncing spell targeting a single creature has
no effect on its intended target (whether due to spell resistance or a
successful saving throw) you may, as a swift action, redirect it to
target another eligible creature within range. The redirected spell
behaves in all ways as if its new target were the original target for
the spell. Spells that affect a target in any way (including a lesser
effect from a successful saving throw) may not be redirected in this
manner. A bouncing spell uses up a spell slot one level higher than the
spell's actual level.

## Breadth of Experience

Although still young for your kind, you have a lifetime of knowledge and
training.

**Prerequisites:** Dwarf, elf, or gnome; 100+ years old.

**Benefit:** You get a +2 bonus on all
[Knowledge](../skills/knowledge.html#_knowledge) and
[Profession](../skills/profession.html#_profession) skill checks, and
can make checks with those skills untrained.

## Bull Rush Strike (Combat)

Your critical hits can push back your foes.

**Prerequisites:** Str 13, [Improved Bull
Rush](../feats.html#_improved-bull-rush), [Power
Attack](../feats.html#_power-attack), base attack bonus +9.

**Benefit:** Whenever you score a critical hit with a melee attack, you
can push your opponent back, in addition to the normal damage dealt by
the attack. If your confirmation roll exceeds your opponent's CMD, you
may push your opponent back as if from the bull rush combat maneuver.
You do not need to move with the target if successful. This does not
provoke an attack of opportunity.

**Normal:** You must perform a bull rush combat maneuver to bull rush an
opponent.

**Special:** You can only apply the effects of one of the following
feats to a given critical hit: [Bull Rush Strike],
[Disarming Strike], [Repositioning
Strike], [Sundering Strike],
or [Tripping Strike]. You may choose to use this feat
after you make your confirmation roll.

## Charge Through (Combat)

You can overrun enemies when charging.

**Prerequisites:** Str 13, [Improved
Overrun](../feats.html#_improved-overrun), [Power
Attack](../feats.html#_power-attack), base attack bonus +1.

**Benefit:** When making a charge, you can attempt to overrun one
creature in the path of the charge as a free action. If you successfully
overrun that creature, you can complete the charge. If the overrun is
unsuccessful, the charge ends in the space directly in front of that
creature.

**Normal:** You must have a clear path toward the target of your charge.

## Childlike

Your resemblance to a human child tends to make others trust you,
perhaps more than they should.

**Prerequisites:** Cha 13, halfling.

**Benefit:** You can take 10 on [Bluff](../skills/bluff.html#_bluff)
checks to convince others you are telling the truth, so long as your
story makes you appear innocent. You gain a +2 bonus on
[Disguise](../skills/disguise.html#_disguise) skill checks to pose as a
human child, and ignore the check penalties for disguising yourself as a
different race and age category while doing so.

## Cloud Step

Your tread is of unearthly lightness.

**Prerequisites:** [Spider Step], monk level 12th.

**Benefit:** As a move action, you can *[air
walk](../spells/airWalk.html#_air-walk)* (as the spell) up to half your
slow fall distance, maximum 50 feet. You must reach a solid, level
surface by the end of your turn or you will fall.

## Cockatrice Strike (Combat)

With a single strike, you transmute flesh to stone.

**Prerequisites:** [Improved Unarmed
Strike](../feats.html#_improved-unarmed-strike), [Gorgon's
Fist](../feats.html#_gorgon-s-fist), [Medusa's
Wrath](../feats.html#_medusa-s-wrath), base attack bonus +16.

**Benefit:** As a full-round action, you can make a single unarmed
strike against a dazed, flat-footed, paralyzed, staggered, stunned, or
unconscious foe. If that attack is a critical hit, the target is
petrified unless it succeeds on a Fortitude saving throw with a DC of 10
+ 1/2 your character level + your Wisdom modifier. This is a
supernatural polymorph effect.

## Combat Patrol (Combat)

You range across the battlefield, dealing with threats wherever they
arise.

**Prerequisites:** [Combat Reflexes](../feats.html#_combat-reflexes),
[Mobility](../feats.html#_mobility), base attack bonus +5.

**Benefit:** As a full-round action, you may set up a combat patrol,
increasing your threatened area by 5 feet for every 5 points of your
base attack bonus. Until the beginning of your next turn, you may make
attacks of opportunity against any opponent in this threatened area that
provokes attacks of opportunity. You may move as part of these attacks,
provided your total movement before your next turn does not exceed your
speed. Any movement you make provokes attacks of opportunity as normal.

## Cooperative Crafting

Your assistance makes item crafting far more efficient.

**Prerequisites:** 1 rank in any [Craft](../skills/craft.html#_craft)
skill, any item creation feat.

**Benefit:** You can assist another character in crafting mundane and
magical items. You must both possess the relevant
[Craft](../skills/craft.html#_craft) skill or item creation feat, but
either one of you can fulfill any other prerequisites for crafting the
item. You provide a +2 circumstance bonus on any
[Craft](../skills/craft.html#_craft) or
[Spellcraft](../skills/spellcraft.html#_spellcraft) checks related to
making an item, and your assistance doubles the gp value of items that
can be crafted each day.

## Coordinated Defense (Combat, Teamwork)

You are adept at working with allies to avoid being tripped, grappled,
and subjected to other maneuvers.

**Benefit:** Whenever you are adjacent to an ally who also has this
feat, you receive a +2 competence bonus to your Combat Maneuver Defense.
This bonus increases to +4 if the creature attempting the maneuver is
larger than both you and your ally.

## Coordinated Maneuvers (Combat, Teamwork)

You are skilled at working with your allies to perform dangerous combat
maneuvers.

**Benefit:** Whenever you are adjacent to an ally who also has this
feat, you receive a +2 competence bonus on all combat maneuver checks.
This bonus increases to +4 when attempting to break free from a grapple.

## Cosmopolitan

Living in large, exotic cities has put you in touch with many diverse
civilizations, cultures, and races.

**Benefit:** You can speak and read two additional languages of your
choice. In addition, choose two Intelligence-, Wisdom-, or
Charisma-based skills. Those skills always count as class skills for
you.

## Covering Defense (Combat)

You are skilled at protecting yourself and your allies with your shield.

**Prerequisites:** [Shield Focus](../feats.html#_shield-focus), base
attack bonus +6.

**Benefit:** When you use the total defense action while using a light,
heavy, or tower shield, you can provide a cover bonus to AC against all
attacks to an adjacent ally your size or smaller. This cover bonus is
equal to your shield's shield bonus and lasts until the beginning of
your next turn. Your shield does not provide a cover bonus to Reflex
saves.

## Crippling Critical (Combat)

You are able to maim a target and hinder its movement.

**Prerequisites:** [Critical Focus](../feats.html#_critical-focus), base
attack bonus +13.

**Benefit:** Whenever you score a critical hit against an opponent, its
speed is halved for 1 minute. A successful Fortitude save reduces this
duration to 1d4 rounds. The DC of this save is equal to 10 + your base
attack bonus. Against creatures with multiple types of movement, you
must choose which movement type to affect. A flying creature hit by this
attack must make a DC 10 [Fly](../skills/fly.html#_fly) check to remain
airborne, and has its maneuverability reduced by one step.

**Special:** You can only apply the effects of one critical feat to a
given critical hit unless you possess [Critical
Mastery](../feats.html#_critical-mastery).

## Crossbow Mastery (Combat)

You can load crossbows with blinding speed and even fire them in melee
with little fear of reprisal.

**Prerequisites:** Dex 15, [Point-Blank
Shot](../feats.html#_point-blank-shot), [Rapid
Reload](../feats.html#_rapid-reload), [Rapid
Shot](../feats.html#_rapid-shot).

**Benefit:** The time required for you to reload any type of crossbow is
reduced to a free action, regardless of the type of crossbow used. You
can fire a crossbow as many times in a full attack action as you could
attack if you were using a bow. Reloading a crossbow for the type of
crossbow you chose when you took [Rapid
Reload](../feats.html#_rapid-reload) no longer provokes attacks of
opportunity.

**Special:** Starting at 6th level, a ranger with the archery combat
style may select [Crossbow Mastery] as a combat style
feat.

## Dastardly Finish (Combat)

You can take advantage of an enemy's debilitated state to attempt a coup
de grace.

**Prerequisite:** Sneak attack +5d6.

**Benefit:** You can deliver a coup de grace to cowering or stunned
targets.

**Normal:** You can only coup de grace helpless targets.

## Dazing Assault (Combat)

You can daze foes with wild attacks.

**Prerequisites:** Str 13, [Power Attack](../feats.html#_power-attack),
base attack bonus +11.

**Benefit:** You can choose to take a –5 penalty on all melee attack
rolls and combat maneuver checks to daze opponents you hit with your
melee attacks for 1 round, in addition to the normal damage dealt by the
attack. A successful Fortitude save negates the effect. The DC of this
save is 10 + your base attack bonus. You must choose to use this feat
before making the attack roll, and its effects last until your next
turn.

## Dazing Spell (Metamagic)

You can daze creatures with the power of your spells.

**Benefit:** You can modify a spell to daze a creature damaged by the
spell. When a creature takes damage from this spell, they become dazed
for a number of rounds equal to the original level of the spell. If the
spell allows a saving throw, a successful save negates the daze effect.
If the spell does not allow a save, the target can make a Will save to
negate the daze effect. If the spell effect also causes the creature to
become dazed, the duration of this metamagic effect is added to the
duration of the spell. A dazing spell uses up a spell slot three levels
higher than the spell's actual level. Spells that do not inflict damage
do not benefit from this feat.

## Deep Drinker

You draw greater amounts of *ki* from your libations.

**Prerequisites:** Con 13, monk level 11, drunken *ki* class feature.

**Benefit:** When you gain temporary *ki* from drunken *ki*, you gain 2
temporary *ki* rather than just 1.

## Deepsight

Your senses are especially keen in the utter darkness.

**Prerequisite:** Darkvision 60 feet.

**Benefit:** Your darkvision has a range of 120 feet.

**Normal:** Darkvision normally extends 60 or 90 feet.

## Disarming Strike (Combat)

Your critical hits can disarm your foes.

**Prerequisites:** Int 13, [Combat
Expertise](../feats.html#_combat-expertise), [Improved
Disarm](../feats.html#_improved-disarm), base attack bonus +9.

**Benefit:** Whenever you score a critical hit with a melee attack, you
can disarm your opponent, in addition to the normal damage dealt by the
attack. If your confirmation roll exceeds your opponent's CMD, you may
disarm your opponent as if from the disarm combat maneuver. This does
not provoke an attack of opportunity.

**Normal:** You must perform a disarm combat maneuver to disarm an
opponent.

**Special:** You can only apply the effects of one of the following
feats to a given critical hit: [Bull Rush Strike],
[Disarming Strike], [Repositioning
Strike], [Sundering Strike],
or [Tripping Strike]. You may choose to use this feat
after you make your confirmation roll.

## Disrupting Shot (Combat)

With a well-placed shot, you make it harder for a nearby opponent to
cast spells.

**Prerequisites:** Dex 13, [Point-Blank
Shot](../feats.html#_point-blank-shot), fighter level 6th.

**Benefit:** If you ready an action to shoot an opponent casting a spell
within 30 feet and successfully hit that opponent with a ranged attack,
the concentration DC to successfully cast the spell is increased by +4.

## Disruptive Spell (Metamagic)

Your magical energies cling to enemies, interfering with their
spellcasting.

**Benefit:** Targets affected by a disruptive spell must make
concentration checks when using spells or spell-like abilities (DC
equals the save DC of the disruptive spell plus the level of the spell
being cast) for 1 round. Targets that avoid the spell's effects avoid
this feat's effect as well. A disruptive spell uses up a spell slot one
level higher than the spell's actual level.

## Diviner's Delving

Your keen magical intuition makes reading signs, portents, and mystical
clues quick and easy.

**Prerequisite:** [Spell Focus](../feats.html#_spell-focus)
(divination).

**Benefit:** You gain a +2 bonus on caster level checks with divinations
to overcome spell resistance or effects that impede divination (for
example, *[nondetection](../spells/nondetection.html#_nondetection)*).
When using a divination spell that requires concentration, you gain
information from the spell 1 round sooner than normal (so you gain
information from the first 2 rounds with 1 round of concentration, and
information from the third round in the second round of concentration).

## Dreadful Carnage (Combat)

Slaying an enemy demoralizes your other nearby foes.

**Prerequisites:** Str 15, [Power Attack](../feats.html#_power-attack),
[Furious Focus], base attack bonus +11.

**Benefit:** Whenever you reduce an enemy to 0 or fewer hit points, you
can make an [Intimidate](../skills/intimidate.html#_intimidate) check to
demoralize all enemies within 30 feet as a free action. Enemies that
cannot see both you and the enemy you reduced to 0 or fewer hit points
are unaffected.

## Duck and Cover (Teamwork)

Your allies assist you in avoiding certain attacks.

**Benefit:** Whenever you are adjacent to an ally who also has this
feat, and both of you are required to make a Reflex saving throw against
a spell or effect, you may take the result of your die roll or that of
your ally (your modifiers still apply to the roll, regardless of which
result you take). If you take your ally's result, you are knocked prone
(or staggered on your next turn, if you are already prone or cannot be
knocked prone). In addition, you receive a +2 cover bonus to your AC
against ranged attacks as long as your ally is wielding a shield.

## Eagle Eyes

Your vision is especially keen.

**Prerequisites:** Wis 13, keen senses racial trait.

**Benefit:** You ignore up to –5 in penalties due to distance on visual
[Perception](../skills/perception.html#_perception) checks, allowing you
to see accurately at much greater distances than most.

## Eclectic

You have a talent for picking up different vocations.

**Prerequisite:** Human.

**Benefit:** Choose an additional favored class and gain either +1 hit
point or +1 skill point whenever you take a level in that class. If you
choose a class in which you already have levels, the benefits of this
feat are retroactive.

## Ectoplasmic Spell (Metamagic)

Your spells breach the gulf between dimensions, sending ghostly
emanations into the ether.

**Benefit:** An ectoplasmic spell has full effect against incorporeal or
ethereal creatures. An ectoplasmic spell uses up a spell slot one level
higher than the spell's actual level.

## Eldritch Claws (Combat)

Who needs magic weapons? Eldritch tricks are no match for your bestial
ferocity.

**Prerequisites:** Str 15, natural weapons, base attack bonus +6.

**Benefit:** You natural weapons are considered both magic and silver
for purpose of overcoming damage reduction.

## Elemental Fist (Combat)

You empower your strike with elemental energy

**Prerequisites:** Con 13, Wis 13, [Improved Unarmed
Strike](../feats.html#_improved-unarmed-strike), base attack bonus +8.

**Benefit:** When you use Elemental Strike pick one of the following
energy types: acid, cold, electricity, or fire. On a successful hit, the
attack deals damage normally plus 1d6 points of damage of the chosen
type. You must declare that you are using this feat before you make your
attack roll (thus a failed attack roll ruins the attempt). You may
attempt an elemental fist attack once per day for every four levels you
have attained (see Special), and no more than once per round.

**Special:** A monk of the four winds receives [Elemental
Fist] as a bonus feat at 1st level, even if he does not
meet the prerequisites. A monk may attempt an [Elemental
Fist] attack a number of times per day equal to his
monk level, plus one more time per day for every four levels he has in
classes other than monk.

## Elemental Focus

Your spells of a certain element are more difficult to resist.

**Benefit:** Choose one energy type (acid, cold, electricity, or fire).
Add +1 to the Difficulty Class for all saving throws against spells that
deal damage of the energy type you select.

**Special:** You can gain this feat multiple times. Its effects do not
stack. Each time you take this feat, it applies to a new energy type.

## Elemental Spell (Metamagic)

You can manipulate the elemental nature of your spells.

**Benefit:** Choose one energy type: acid, cold, electricity, or fire.
You may replace a spell's normal damage with that energy type or split
the spell's damage, so that half is of that energy type and half is of
its normal type. An elemental spell uses up a spell slot one level
higher than the spell's actual level.

**Special:** You can gain this feat multiple times. Each time you must
choose a different energy type.

## Elven Accuracy (Combat)

Your sharp eyesight makes difficult shots easier.

**Prerequisite:** Elf.

**Benefit:** If you miss due to concealment when making a ranged attack
with a longbow or shortbow (including composite bows), you can reroll
your miss chance roll one time to see if you actually hit.

## Enforcer (Combat)

You are skilled at causing fear in those you brutalize.

**Prerequisite:** [Intimidate](../skills/intimidate.html#_intimidate) 1
rank.

**Benefit:** Whenever you deal nonlethal damage with a melee weapon, you
can make an [Intimidate](../skills/intimidate.html#_intimidate) check to
demoralize your target as a free action. If you are successful, the
target is shaken for a number of rounds equal to the damage dealt. If
your attack was a critical hit, your target is frightened for 1 round
with a successful [Intimidate](../skills/intimidate.html#_intimidate)
check, as well as being shaken for a number of rounds equal to the
damage dealt.

## Expanded Arcana

Your research has revealed new spells.

**Prerequisites:** Caster level 1st, see Special.

**Benefit:** Add one spell from your class's spell list to your list of
spells known. This is in addition to the number of spells normally
gained at each new level in your class. You may instead add two spells
from your class's spell list to your list of spells known, but both of
these spells must be at least one level lower than the highest level
spell you can cast in that class. Once made, these choices cannot be
changed.

**Special:** You can only take this feat if you possess levels in a
class whose spellcasting relies on a limited list of spells known, such
as the bard, oracle, and sorcerer.

You can gain [Expanded Arcana] multiple times.

## Extra Bombs

You can throw more bombs per day.

**Prerequisite:** Bomb class feature.

**Benefit:** You can throw two additional bombs per day.

**Special:** You can gain [Extra Bombs] multiple times.
Its effects stack.

## Extra Discovery

You have made a new alchemical discovery.

**Prerequisite:** Discovery class feature.

**Benefit:** You gain one additional discovery. You must meet all of the
prerequisites for this discovery.

**Special:** You can gain [Extra Discovery] multiple
times.

## Extra Hex

You have learned the secrets of a new hex.

**Prerequisite:** Hex class feature.

**Benefit:** You gain one additional hex. You must meet all of the
prerequisites for this hex.

**Special:** You can gain [Extra Hex] multiple times.

## Extra Rage Power

You have unlocked a new ability to use while raging.

**Prerequisite:** Rage power class feature.

**Benefit:** You gain one additional rage power. You must meet all of
the prerequisites for this rage power.

**Special:** You can gain [Extra Rage Power] multiple
times.

## Extra Revelation

You have discovered a new aspect of your mystery.

**Prerequisite:** Revelation class feature.

**Benefit:** You gain one additional revelation. You must meet all of
the prerequisites for this revelation.

**Special:** You can gain [Extra Revelation] multiple
times.

## Extra Rogue Talent

Through constant practice, you have learned how to perform a special
trick.

**Prerequisite:** Rogue talent class feature.

**Benefit:** You gain one additional rogue talent. You must meet all of
the prerequisites for this rogue talent.

**Special:** You can gain [Extra Rogue Talent]
multiple times.

## Fast Drinker

You swiftly guzzle spirits to draw forth *ki*.

**Prerequisites:** Con 18, drunken *ki* class feature.

**Benefit:** Drinking strong alcohol to gain temporary *ki*, takes a
swift action rather than a standard action.

## Fast Healer

You benefit greatly from your healing, be it from spells or natural
healing.

**Prerequisites:** Con 13, [Diehard](../feats.html#_diehard),
[Endurance](../feats.html#_endurance).

**Benefit:** When you regain hit points by resting or through magical
healing, you recover additional hit points equal to half your
Constitution modifier (minimum +1).

## Favored Defense

Your cunning is your shield against your quarry's attacks.

**Prerequisite:** Favored enemy class feature.

**Benefit:** Choose one of your favored enemy types. You add half your
favored enemy bonus to your CMD and as a dodge bonus to AC when attacked
by a favored enemy.

**Special:** You can gain this feat multiple times. Its effects do not
stack. Each time you take this feat, it applies to a new favored enemy
type.

## Fight On

You can keep fighting even after you should be dead.

**Prerequisites:** Con 13; dwarf, half-orc, or orc.

**Benefit:** Once per day, you can gain a number of temporary hit points
equal to your Constitution modifier. You can activate this feat as an
immediate action when reduced to 0 or fewer hit points. You can use this
feat to prevent yourself from dying. These temporary hit points last for
1 minute. If your hit points drop below 0 due to the loss of these
temporary hit points, you fall unconscious and are dying as normal. If
you also have the ferocity racial trait, you can use that once you have
lost the temporary hit points from this feat.

## Focused Shot (Combat)

Your anatomical insight adds deadliness to your shots.

**Prerequisites:** Int 13, Point Blank Shot, [Precise
Shot](../feats.html#_precise-shot).

**Benefit:** As a standard action, you may make an attack with a bow or
crossbow and add your Intelligence modifier on the damage roll. You must
be within 30 feet of your target to deal this extra damage. Creatures
immune to critical hits and sneak attacks are immune to this extra
damage.

**Special:** Starting at 2nd level, a ranger with the archery combat
style may select [Focused Shot] as a combat style feat.

## Focused Spell (Metamagic)

When you cast a spell that affects more than one creature, one opponent
finds it more difficult to resist.

**Benefit:** When casting a spell that affects or targets more than one
creature, you can choose one target or creature within the spell effect.
That creature's saving throw DC to resist the spell is increased by +2.
You must choose which target to focus the spell on before casting the
spell. A focused spell uses up a spell slot one level higher than the
spell's actual level.

Spells that do not require a saving throw to resist or lessen the
spell's effect do not benefit from this feat.

## Following Step (Combat)

You can repeatedly close the distance when foes try to move away,
without impeding your normal movement.

**Prerequisites:** Dex 13, [Step Up](../feats.html#_step-up).

**Benefit:** When using the [Step Up](../feats.html#_step-up) feat to
follow an adjacent foe, you may move up to 10 feet. You may still take a
5-foot step during your next turn, and any movement you make using this
feat does not subtract any distance from your movement during your next
turn.

**Normal:** You can only take a 5-foot step to follow an opponent using
[Step Up](../feats.html#_step-up).

## Furious Focus (Combat)

Even in the midst of fierce and furious blows, you can find focus in the
carnage and your seemingly wild blows strike home.

**Prerequisites:** Str 13, [Power Attack](../feats.html#_power-attack),
base attack bonus +1.

**Benefit:** When you are wielding a two-handed weapon or a one-handed
weapon with two hands, and using the [Power
Attack](../feats.html#_power-attack) feat, you do not suffer [Power
Attack](../feats.html#_power-attack)'s penalty on melee attack rolls on
the first attack you make each turn. You still suffer the penalty on any
additional attacks, including attacks of opportunity.

## Gang Up (Combat)

You are adept at using greater numbers against foes.

**Prerequisites:** Int 13, [Combat
Expertise](../feats.html#_combat-expertise).

**Benefit:** You are considered to be flanking an opponent if at least
two of your allies are threatening that opponent, regardless of your
actual positioning.

**Normal:** You must be positioned opposite an ally to flank an
opponent.

## Gnome Trickster

Your arcane talents go beyond the illusory.

**Prerequisites:** Cha 13, gnome, gnome magic racial trait.

**Benefit:** In addition to your normal gnome spell-like abilities, you
also gain the following spell-like abilities: 1/day—*[mage
hand](../spells/mageHand.html#_mage-hand)* and
*[prestidigitation](../spells/prestidigitation.html#_prestidigitation)*.

## Go Unnoticed

Your small size lets you quickly duck out of sight.

**Prerequisites:** Dex 13, Small size or smaller.

**Benefit:** During the first round of combat, flat-footed opponents are
considered not to have noticed you yet for the purposes of
[Stealth](../skills/stealth.html#_stealth) skill checks, allowing you to
make a [Stealth](../skills/stealth.html#_stealth) check that round to
hide from them.

## Greater Blind-Fight (Combat)

Your enemies cannot hide from you.

**Prerequisites:** [Perception](../skills/perception.html#_perception)
15 ranks, Improved [Blind-Fight](../feats.html#_blind-fight).

**Benefit:** Your melee attacks ignore the miss chance for less than
total concealment, and you treat opponents with total concealment as if
they had normal concealment (20% miss chance instead of 50%). You may
still reroll a miss chance percentile roll as normal.

If you successfully pinpoint an invisible or hidden attacker, that
attacker gets no advantages related to hitting you with ranged attacks,
regardless of the range. That is, you don't lose your Dexterity bonus to
Armor Class, and the attacker doesn't get the usual +2 bonus for being
invisible.

**Special:** The Greater [Blind-Fight](../feats.html#_blind-fight) feat
is of no use against a character who is the subject of a
*[blink](../spells/blink.html#_blink)* spell.

## Greater Dirty Trick (Combat)

When you pull a dirty trick, your foe is truly hindered.

**Prerequisites:** Int 13, [Combat
Expertise](../feats.html#_combat-expertise), [Improved Dirty
Trick], base attack bonus +6.

**Benefit:** You receive a +2 bonus on checks made to attempt a dirty
trick. This bonus stacks with the bonus granted by [Improved Dirty
Trick]. Whenever you successfully perform a dirty
trick, the penalty lasts for 1d4 rounds, plus 1 round for every 5 by
which your attack exceeds the target's CMD. In addition, removing the
condition requires the target to spend a standard action.

**Normal:** The condition imposed by a dirty trick lasts for 1 round
plus 1 round for every 5 by which your attack exceeds the target's CMD.
Removing the condition requires the target to spend a move action.

## Greater Drag (Combat)

Foes that you drag are thrown out of balance.

**Prerequisites:** Str 13, [Improved Drag], [Power
Attack](../feats.html#_power-attack), base attack bonus +6.

**Benefit:** You receive a +2 bonus on checks made to drag a foe. This
bonus stacks with the bonus granted by [Improved Drag].
Whenever you drag a foe, his movement provokes attacks of opportunity
from all of your allies (but not you).

**Normal:** Creatures moved by drag do not provoke attacks of
opportunity.

## Greater Elemental Focus

Choose an energy type to which you have already applied the [Elemental
Focus] feat. Any spells you cast of this energy type
are very hard to resist.

**Prerequisite:** [Elemental Focus].

**Benefit:** Add +1 to the Difficulty Class for all saving throws
against spells that deal damage of the energy type you select. This
bonus stacks with the bonus from [Elemental Focus].

**Special:** You can gain this feat multiple times. Its effects do not
stack. Each time you take this feat, it applies to a new energy type to
which you have already applied the [Elemental Focus]
feat.

## Greater Reposition (Combat)

When you reposition foes, they are left vulnerable to the attacks of
your allies.

**Prerequisites:** Int 13, [Combat
Expertise](../feats.html#_combat-expertise), [Improved
Reposition], base attack bonus +6.

**Benefit:** You receive a +2 bonus on checks made to reposition a foe.
This bonus stacks with the bonus granted by [Improved
Reposition]. Whenever you reposition a foe, his
movement provokes attacks of opportunity from all of your allies (but
not you).

**Normal:** Creatures moved by reposition do not provoke attacks of
opportunity.

## Greater Shield Specialization (Combat)

Your masterful shieldwork provides even greater protection to your vital
areas.

**Prerequisites:** Proficiency with selected shield, [Greater Shield
Focus](../feats.html#_greater-shield-focus), [Shield
Focus](../feats.html#_shield-focus), [Shield
Specialization] with selected shield, fighter
level 12th.

**Benefit:** Choose one type of shield (buckler, light, heavy, or tower
shield) for which you possess the [Shield
Specialization] feat. With the selected shield,
you gain a +2 bonus to your Armor Class against critical hit
confirmation rolls (this bonus stacks with that from [Shield
Specialization]). In addition, once per day you
may negate a critical hit, and damage is instead rolled normally.

**Special:** You can gain this feat multiple times. Its effects do not
stack. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a new type of shield.

## Greater Steal (Combat)

You have a knack for snatching items from your opponents in combat.

**Prerequisites:** Int 13, [Combat
Expertise](../feats.html#_combat-expertise), [Improved
Steal], base attack bonus +6.

**Benefit:** You receive a +2 bonus on checks made to steal an item from
a foe. This bonus stacks with the bonus granted by [Improved
Steal]. If you successfully steal an item from a foe
during combat, it does not notice the theft until after combat is over
or if it attempts to use the missing item.

**Normal:** Creatures automatically notice items taken from them through
the steal combat maneuver.

## Groundling

You can speak with burrowing animals.

**Prerequisites:** Cha 13, gnome, gnome magic racial trait.

**Benefit:** You can use *[speak with
animals](../spells/speakWithAnimals.html#_speak-with-animals)* as a
spell-like ability at will, but only to communicate with burrowing
animals like gophers, moles, and the like. You can still use your gnome
*[speak with
animals](../spells/speakWithAnimals.html#_speak-with-animals)* ability
once per day to speak with any animal, as usual.

## Heroic Defiance

You struggle on when others would fall.

**Prerequisites:** [Diehard](../feats.html#_diehard),
[Endurance](../feats.html#_endurance), base Fortitude save +8.

**Benefit:** Once per day as an immediate action you can delay the onset
of one harmful condition or affliction (such as panicked, paralyzed,
stunned, and so on), including permanent and instantaneous conditions.
Activating this feat delays the onset of the condition until the end of
your next turn, after which time the condition takes its normal effect.
This feat has no effect on hit point damage or ability damage.

## Heroic Recovery

You can throw off the effects of crippling conditions.

**Prerequisites:** [Diehard](../feats.html#_diehard),
[Endurance](../feats.html#_endurance), base Fortitude save +4.

**Benefit:** Once per day as a standard action you may attempt a new
saving throw against a harmful condition or affliction requiring a
Fortitude save that is affecting you. If this save against the
affliction fails, there is no additional effect, but a successful save
counts toward curing an affliction such as poison or disease. You cannot
use this feat to recover from instantaneous effects, effects that do not
allow a saving throw, or effects that do not require a Fortitude save.

## Improved Blind-Fight (Combat)

Your keen senses guide your hand against hidden foes.

**Prerequisites:** [Perception](../skills/perception.html#_perception)
10 ranks, [Blind-Fight](../feats.html#_blind-fight).

**Benefit:** Your melee attacks ignore the miss chance for less than
total concealment. You may still reroll your miss chance percentile roll
for total concealment.

If you successfully pinpoint an invisible or hidden attacker within 30
feet, that attacker gets no advantages related to hitting you with
ranged attacks. That is, you don't lose your Dexterity bonus to Armor
Class, and the attacker doesn't get the usual +2 bonus for being
invisible.

**Special:** The Improved Blind-Fight feat is of no use against a
character who is the subject of a *[blink](../spells/blink.html#_blink)*
spell.

## Improved Dirty Trick (Combat)

You are skilled at pulling dirty tricks on your foes.

**Prerequisites:** Int 13, [Combat
Expertise](../feats.html#_combat-expertise).

**Benefit:** You do not provoke an attack of opportunity when performing
a dirty trick combat maneuver. In addition, you receive a +2 bonus on
checks made to attempt a dirty trick. You also receive a +2 bonus to
your Combat Maneuver Defense when an opponent tries a dirty trick on
you.

**Normal:** You provoke an attack of opportunity when performing a dirty
trick combat maneuver.

## Improved Drag (Combat)

You are skilled at dragging foes around the battlefield.

**Prerequisites:** Str 13, [Power Attack](../feats.html#_power-attack),
base attack bonus +1.

**Benefit:** You do not provoke an attack of opportunity when performing
a drag combat maneuver. In addition, you receive a +2 bonus on checks
made to drag a foe. You also receive a +2 bonus to your Combat Maneuver
Defense when an opponent tries to drag you.

**Normal:** You provoke an attack of opportunity when performing a drag
combat maneuver.

## Improved Ki Throw (Combat)

Your enemies are living weapons in your hands.

**Prerequisites:** [Improved Bull
Rush](../feats.html#_improved-bull-rush), *Ki* Throw.

**Benefit:** When using the *Ki* Throw feat, you may throw your target
into any square you threaten that is occupied by another creature. Make
a bull rush combat maneuver check with a –4 penalty against the
secondary target. If this check succeeds, the thrown creature lands
prone in the secondary target's square, while the secondary target is
pushed back and knocked prone in an adjacent square. If the check fails,
the thrown creature lands prone in the nearest square you threaten
adjacent to the secondary target.

If you throw a Large or larger creature into an area containing multiple
secondary targets, you take an additional penalty of –4 on your combat
maneuver check for each target after the first.

**Special:** A monk may take this as a bonus feat at 14th level.

## Improved Reposition (Combat)

You have learned how to force your enemies to move around the
battlefield.

**Prerequisites:** Int 13, [Combat
Expertise](../feats.html#_combat-expertise).

**Benefit:** You do not provoke an attack of opportunity when performing
a reposition combat maneuver. In addition, you receive a +2 bonus on
checks made to reposition a foe. You also receive a +2 bonus to your
Combat Maneuver Defense when an opponent tries to reposition you.

**Normal:** You provoke an attack of opportunity when performing a
reposition combat maneuver.

## Improved Second Chance (Combat)

You can turn a missed strike into a second chance without sacrificing
later attacks.

**Prerequisites:** Int 13, [Combat
Expertise](../feats.html#_combat-expertise), [Second
Chance], base attack bonus +11.

**Benefit:** When you reroll a missed attack using the [Second
Chance] feat, you can still make the rest of your
attacks that turn, albeit at a –5 penalty to each attack.

**Normal:** When using the [Second Chance] feat, you
must normally forgo the rest of your attacks that turn.

## Improved Share Spells

You can share spells with those you have a magical connection with.

**Prerequisites:** [Spellcraft](../skills/spellcraft.html#_spellcraft)
10 ranks, ability to acquire an animal companion, eidolon, familiar, or
special mount.

**Benefit:** Any non-instantaneous spell (but not any spell-like
ability) you cast on yourself can also affect a creature bonded to you
(such as an animal companion, eidolon, familiar, or special mount). The
creature must be within 5 feet of you at the time of casting to receive
the benefit. The spell's duration is halved between you and your bonded
creature (for example, a spell with a duration of 1 hour has a duration
of 30 minutes for both you and your bonded creature).

If the spell or effect has a duration other than instantaneous, it stops
affecting the creature if it moves farther than 5 feet away from you. It
does not affect the creature again if it returns before the duration
expires.

You may share spells in this fashion even if the spells normally do not
affect creatures of that type.

This feat only applies to animal companions, eidolons, familiars, or
special mounts gained through a class feature.

## Improved Sidestep (Combat)

You are adept at sidestepping your opponent's melee attacks without
compromising your mobility.

**Prerequisites:** Dex 15, [Dodge](../feats.html#_dodge),
[Mobility](../feats.html#_mobility), [Sidestep].

**Benefit:** After sidestepping an opponent's missed attack using the
[Sidestep] feat, you may still take a 5-foot step during your
next turn, or you may move up to your full speed if you take an action
to move during your next turn.

**Normal:** If you use the [Sidestep] feat, you cannot take a
5-foot step during your next turn.

## Improved Steal (Combat)

You have a knack for snatching items from your opponents.

**Prerequisites:** Int 13, [Combat
Expertise](../feats.html#_combat-expertise).

**Benefit:** You do not provoke an attack of opportunity when performing
a steal combat maneuver. In addition, you receive a +2 bonus on checks
made to steal an item from a foe. You also receive a +2 bonus to your
Combat Maneuver Defense when an opponent tries to steal an item from
you.

**Normal:** You provoke an attack of opportunity when performing a steal
combat maneuver.

## Improved Stonecunning

Your sense for stonework is uncanny.

**Prerequisites:** Wis 13, dwarf, stonecunning racial trait.

**Benefit:** You receive a +4 bonus on
[Perception](../skills/perception.html#_perception) checks to notice
unusual stonework. This bonus replaces the stonecunning ability's normal
bonus on [Perception](../skills/perception.html#_perception) checks.

## Intensified Spell (Metamagic)

Your spells can go beyond several normal limitations.

**Benefit:** An intensified spell increases the maximum number of damage
dice by 5 levels. You must actually have sufficient caster levels to
surpass the maximum in order to benefit from this feat. No other
variables of the spell are affected, and spells that inflict damage that
is not modified by caster level are not affected by this feat. An
intensified spell uses up a spell slot one level higher than the spell's
actual level.

## In Harm's Way (Combat)

You put yourself in danger's path to save your allies.

**Prerequisite:** [Bodyguard].

**Benefit:** While using the aid another action to improve an adjacent
ally's AC, you can intercept a successful attack against that ally as an
immediate action, taking full damage from that attack and any associated
effects (bleed, poison, etc.). A creature cannot benefit from this feat
more than once per attack.

## Ironguts

You have an especially strong stomach.

**Prerequisites:** Con 13; dwarf, half-orc, or orc.

**Benefit:** You gain a +2 racial bonus on saving throws against any
effect causing the nauseated or sickened conditions and against all
ingested poisons (but not other poisons). In addition, you receive a +2
bonus on [Survival](../skills/survival.html#_survival) skill checks to
find food for yourself (and only yourself).

## Ironhide

Your skin is thicker and more resilient than that of most of your
people.

**Prerequisites:** Con 13; dwarf, half-orc, or orc.

**Benefit:** You gain a +1 natural armor bonus due to your unusually
tough hide.

## Keen Scent

Your nose is as sensitive as that of a wild predator.

**Prerequisites:** Wis 13, half-orc or orc.

**Benefit:** You gain the scent special ability.

## Ki Throw (Combat)

Your physical control and mastery of momentum allows you to throw
enemies.

**Prerequisites:** [Improved Trip](../feats.html#_improved-trip),
[Improved Unarmed Strike](../feats.html#_improved-unarmed-strike).

**Benefit:** On a successful unarmed trip attack against a target your
size or smaller, you may throw the target prone in any square you
threaten rather than its own square. This movement does not provoke
attacks of opportunity, and you cannot throw the creature into a space
occupied by other creatures.

**Special:** A monk may gain *Ki* Throw as a bonus feat at 10th level. A
monk with this feat can affect creatures larger than his own size by
spending 1 *ki* point per size category difference.

## Leaf Singer

Your songs recount the ways and mysteries of your people.

**Prerequisites:** Cha 13, bardic performance class feature, elf or
half-elf.

**Benefit:** When you use bardic performance with audible components in
a forest, the range or area of your chosen performance is doubled. In
addition, the DC for saving throws against your bardic performance is
increased by +2 for creatures of the fey type, regardless of where the
performance occurs.

## Light Step

You pick your way nimbly through even the most dangerous and uneven
terrain.

**Prerequisites:** [Acrobatic Steps](../feats.html#_acrobatic-steps),
[Nimble Moves](../feats.html#_nimble-moves), elf.

**Benefit:** You can ignore the effects of difficult terrain in natural
environments, as if it were normal terrain.

## Lingering Performance

The effects of your bardic performance carry on, even after you have
stopped performing.

**Prerequisite:** Bardic performance class feature.

**Benefit:** The bonuses and penalties from your bardic performance
continue for 2 rounds after you cease performing. Any other requirement,
such as range or specific conditions, must still be met for the effect
to continue. If you begin a new bardic performance during this time, the
effects of the previous performance immediately cease.

## Lingering Spell (Metamagic)

You spell clings to existence, slowly fading from the world.

**Benefit:** You may cause an instantaneous spell that affects an area
to persist until the beginning of your next turn. Those already in the
area suffer no additional harm, but other creatures or objects entering
the area are subject to its effects. A lingering spell with a visual
manifestation obscures vision, providing concealment (20% miss chance)
beyond 5 feet and total concealment (50% miss chance) beyond 20 feet.

A lingering spell uses up a spell slot one level higher than the spell's
actual level.

## Lookout (Combat, Teamwork)

Your allies help you avoid being surprised.

**Benefit:** Whenever you are adjacent to an ally who also has this
feat, you may act in the surprise round as long as your ally would
normally be able to act in the surprise round. If you would normally be
denied the ability to act in the surprise round, your initiative is
equal to your initiative roll or the roll of your ally –1, whichever is
lower. If both you and your ally would be able to act in the surprise
round without the aid of this feat, you may take both a standard and a
move action (or a full-round action) during the surprise round.

## Low Profile (Combat)

Yours small stature helps you avoid ranged attacks.

**Prerequisites:** Dex 13, Small size or smaller.

**Benefit:** You gain a +1 dodge bonus to AC against ranged attacks. In
addition, you do not provide soft cover to creatures when ranged attacks
pass through your square.

## Lucky Halfling

You bring luck to those with whom you travel.

**Prerequisite:** Halfling.

**Benefit:** Once per day, when one of your allies within 30 feet makes
a saving throw, you may roll the same saving throw as if you were the
one subject to the effect requiring it. You may use this ability after
your ally has rolled, but before the GM declares if the roll was a
success or failure. Your ally may choose to use your saving throw in
place of his own.

## Major Spell Expertise

You can cast a single low-level spell as a spell-like ability.

**Prerequisites:** [Minor Spell Expertise],
ability to cast 9th-level spells.

**Benefit:** Choose one spell that you know of 5th level or lower. You
may cast that spell twice per day as a spell-like ability. The caster
level for this spell-like ability is equal to your caster level in the
class from whose spell list the spell is taken. The spell-like ability's
save DC is Charisma-based. If the spell has an expensive focus or
material component, it may not be chosen for this feat. You cannot apply
metamagic feats to this spell.

**Special:** You can gain this feat multiple times. Its effects do not
stack. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a new spell.

## Master Alchemist

Your mastery of alchemy is nearly supernatural.

**Prerequisite:** [Craft](../skills/craft.html#_craft) (alchemy) 5
ranks.

**Benefit:** You receive a +2 bonus on
[Craft](../skills/craft.html#_craft) (alchemy) checks, and you may
create mundane alchemical items much more quickly than normal. When
making poisons, you can create a number of doses equal to your
Intelligence modifier (minimum 1) at one time. These additional doses do
not increase the time required, but they do increase the raw material
cost.

In addition, whenever you make alchemical items or poisons using
[Craft](../skills/craft.html#_craft) (alchemy), use the item's gp value
as its sp value when determining your progress (do not multiply the
item's gp cost by 10 to determine its sp cost).

## Merciful Spell (Metamagic)

Your damaging spells subdue rather than kill.

**Benefit:** You can alter spells that inflict damage to inflict
nonlethal damage instead. Spells that inflict damage of a particular
type (such as fire) inflict nonlethal damage of that same type. A
merciful spell does not use up a higher-level spell slot than the
spell's actual level.

## Minor Spell Expertise

You are able to cast a 1st-level spell as a spell-like ability.

**Prerequisite:** Ability to cast 4th-level spells.

**Benefit:** Choose one 1st-level spell that you know. You may cast that
spell twice per day as a spell-like ability. The caster level for this
spell-like ability is equal to your caster level in the class from whose
spell list the spell is taken. The spell-like ability's save DC is
Charisma-based. If the spell has an expensive focus or material
component, it may not be chosen for this feat. You cannot apply
metamagic feats to this spell.

**Special:** You can gain this feat multiple times. Its effects do not
stack. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a new spell.

## Missile Shield (Combat)

You are skilled at deflecting ranged attacks with your shield.

**Prerequisites:** Dex 13, [Shield Focus](../feats.html#_shield-focus).

**Benefit:** You must be using a light, heavy, or tower shield to use
this feat. Once per round when you would normally be hit with an attack
from a ranged weapon (not including spell effects, natural attacks, or
massive ranged weapons), you may deflect it so that you take no damage,
as if you had the [Deflect Arrows](../feats.html#_deflect-arrows) feat.
You must be aware of the attack and not flat-footed.

## Mounted Shield (Combat)

Your defensive tactics defend both you and your mount.

**Prerequisites:** [Mounted Combat](../feats.html#_mounted-combat),
[Shield Focus](../feats.html#_shield-focus).

**Benefit:** You may add your base shield bonus (including the bonus
from [Shield Focus](../feats.html#_shield-focus) but not including
enhancement bonuses) to your mount's AC. In addition, you may add this
bonus when making a [Ride](../skills/ride.html#_ride) check to negate a
hit against your mount using the [Mounted
Combat](../feats.html#_mounted-combat) feat.

## Mounted Skirmisher (Combat)

You are adept at attacking from upon a swift moving steed.

**Prerequisites:** [Ride](../skills/ride.html#_ride) rank 14, [Mounted
Combat](../feats.html#_mounted-combat), [Trick Riding].

**Benefit:** If your mount moves its speed or less, you can still take a
full-attack action.

**Normal:** If your mount moves more than 5 feet, you can only take an
attack action.

## Outflank (Combat, Teamwork)

You look for every edge when flanking an enemy.

**Prerequisite:** Base attack bonus +4.

**Benefit:** Whenever you and an ally who also has this feat are
flanking the same creature, your flanking bonus on attack rolls
increases to +4. In addition, whenever you score a critical hit against
the flanked creature, it provokes an attack of opportunity from your
ally.

## Paired Opportunists (Combat, Teamwork)

You know how to make an enemy pay for lax defenses.

**Benefit:** Whenever you are adjacent to an ally who also has this
feat, you receive a +4 circumstance bonus on attacks of opportunity
against creatures that you both threaten. Enemies that provoke attacks
of opportunity from your ally also provoke attacks of opportunity from
you so long as you threaten them (even if the situation or an ability
would normally deny you the attack of opportunity). This does not allow
you to take more than one attack of opportunity against a creature for a
given action.

## Parry Spell

You can throw an enemy spell back at its caster.

**Prerequisites:** [Spellcraft](../skills/spellcraft.html#_spellcraft)
15 ranks, [Improved Counterspell](../feats.html#_improved-counterspell)
.

**Benefit:** Whenever you successfully counter a spell, it returns back
to its caster. This works exactly like the *[spell
turning](../spells/spellTurning.html#_spell-turning)* spell.

## Parting Shot (Combat)

You are an expert skirmisher, able to rain missiles upon your enemies
whether advancing or retreating.

**Prerequisites:** Dex 13, [Dodge](../feats.html#_dodge),
[Mobility](../feats.html#_mobility), Point Blank Shot, [Shot on the
Run](../feats.html#_shot-on-the-run), base attack bonus +6.

**Benefit:** Once per encounter, when using the withdraw action, you can
make a single ranged attack at any point during your movement.

**Normal:** You cannot attack when using the withdraw action.

**Special:** Starting at 6th level, a ranger with the archery combat
style may select [Parting Shot] as a combat style feat.

## Pass For Human

You're easily mistaken for a human rather than a member of your own
race.

**Prerequisite:** Half-elf, half-orc, or halfling (see Special).

**Benefit:** You receive a +10 bonus on
[Disguise](../skills/disguise.html#_disguise) checks to disguise
yourself as a human, and do not receive the penalty for disguising
yourself as a member of another race when you do so. In areas largely
populated or settled by humans, you can take 10 on your
[Disguise](../skills/disguise.html#_disguise) check, meaning most people
tend to assume you are human unless given a reason to think otherwise.

**Special:** A halfling may take this feat, but must have the
[Childlike] feat as a prerequisite. The benefits of the two
feats stack.

## Perfect Strike (Combat)

When wielding a monk weapon, your attacks can be extremely precise.

**Prerequisites:** Dex 13, Wis 13, [Improved Unarmed
Strike](../feats.html#_improved-unarmed-strike), base attack bonus +8.

**Benefit:** You must declare that you are using this feat before you
make your attack roll (thus a failed attack roll ruins the attempt). You
must use one of the following weapons to make the attack: kama,
nunchaku, quarterstaff, sai, and siangham. You can roll your attack roll
twice and take the higher result. If one of these rolls is a critical
threat, the other roll is used as your confirmation roll (your choice if
they are both critical threats). You may attempt a perfect attack once
per day for every four levels you have attained (but see Special), and
no more than once per round.

**Special:** A weapon master monk or zen archer monk receives [Perfect
Strike] as a bonus feat at 1st level, even if he does
not meet the prerequisites. A monk may attempt an perfect strike attack
a number of times per day equal to his monk level, plus one more time
per day for every four levels he has in classes other than monk.

## Persistent Spell (Metamagic)

You can modify a spell to become more tenacious when its targets resist
its effect.

**Benefit:** Whenever a creature targeted by a persistent spell or
within its area succeeds on its saving throw against the spell, it must
make another saving throw against the effect. If a creature fails this
second saving throw, it suffers the full effects of the spell, as if it
had failed its first saving throw. A persistent spell uses up a spell
slot two levels higher than the spell's actual level.

Spells that do not require a saving throw to resist or lessen the
spell's effect do not benefit from this feat.

## Point Blank Master (Combat)

You are adept at firing ranged weapons in close quarters.

**Prerequisite:** [Weapon
Specialization](../feats.html#_weapon-specialization) with selected
ranged weapon.

**Benefit:** Choose one type of ranged weapon. You do not provoke
attacks of opportunity when firing the selected weapon while threatened.

**Normal:** Using a ranged weapon while you are threatened provokes
attacks of opportunity.

**Special:** Starting at 6th level, a ranger with the archery combat
style may select [Point Blank Master] as a combat
style feat, but he must have [Weapon Focus](../feats.html#_weapon-focus)
instead of [Weapon Specialization](../feats.html#_weapon-specialization)
in the selected weapon.

## Practiced Tactician

With only a few quick gestures and commands, you can direct others in
combat.

**Prerequisite:** Tactician class feature.

**Benefit:** You can use your tactician ability to grant allies a
teamwork feat one additional time per day.

**Special:** You can gain [Practiced Tactician]
multiple times. Its effects stack.

## Precise Strike (Combat, Teamwork)

You are skilled at striking where it counts, as long as an ally
distracts your foe.

**Prerequisites:** Dex 13, base attack bonus +1.

**Benefit:** Whenever you and an ally who also has this feat are
flanking the same the creature, you deal an additional 1d6 points of
precision damage with each successful melee attack. This bonus damage
stacks with other sources of precision damage, such as sneak attack.
This bonus damage is not multiplied on a critical hit.

## Preferred Spell

You find it very easy to cast one particular spell.

**Prerequisites:** [Spellcraft](../skills/spellcraft.html#_spellcraft) 5
ranks, [Heighten Spell](../feats.html#_heighten-spell).

**Benefit:** Choose one spell which you have the ability to cast. You
can cast that spell spontaneously by sacrificing a prepared spell or
spell slot of equal or higher level. You can apply any metamagic feats
you possess to this spell when you cast it. This increases the minimum
level of the prepared spell or spell slot you must sacrifice in order to
cast it but does not affect the casting time.

**Special:** You can gain this feat multiple times. Its effects do not
stack. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a different spell.

## Punishing Kick (Combat)

Your kicks are so powerful you use them to push or knock back your foes.

**Prerequisites:** Con 13, Wis 13, [Improved Unarmed
Strike](../feats.html#_improved-unarmed-strike), base attack bonus +8.

**Benefit:** You must declare that you are using this feat before you
make your attack roll (thus a failed attack roll ruins the attempt). On
a successful hit, the attack deals damage normally and you can choose to
push your target 5 feet or attempt to knock them prone. If you decide to
push the target, it is moved 5 feet directly away from you. This
movement does not provoke attacks of opportunity, and the target must
end this move in a safe space it can stand in. If you decide to attempt
to knock the target prone, the target receives a Fortitude saving throw
with a DC of 10 + 1/2 your character level + your Wisdom modifier to
avoid the effect. You may attempt a punishing kick attack once per day
for every four levels you have attained (but see Special), and no more
than once per round.

**Special:** A hungry ghost monk receives [Punishing
Kick] as a bonus feat at 1st level, even if he does not
meet the prerequisites. A monk may attempt a punishing kick attack a
number of times per day equal to his monk level, plus one more time per
day for every four levels he has in classes other than monk.

## Pushing Assault (Combat)

A strike made with a two-handed weapon can push a similar sized opponent
backward.

**Prerequisites:** Str 15, [Power Attack](../feats.html#_power-attack),
base attack bonus +1.

**Benefit:** When you hit a creature your size or smaller with a
two-handed weapon attack modified by the [Power
Attack](../feats.html#_power-attack) feat, you can choose to push the
target 5 feet directly away from you instead of dealing the extra damage
from [Power Attack](../feats.html#_power-attack). If you score a
critical hit, you can instead push the target 10 feet directly away from
you. This movement does not provoke attacks of opportunities, and the
target must end this move in a safe space it can stand in. You choose
which effect to apply after the attack roll has been made, but before
the damage is rolled.

## Racial Heritage

The blood of a non-human ancestor flows in your veins.

**Prerequisite:** Human.

**Benefit:** Choose another humanoid race. You count as both human and
that race for any effects related to race. For example, if you choose
dwarf, you are considered both a human and a dwarf for the purpose of
taking traits, feats, how spells and magic items affect you, and so on.

## Raging Vitality

While raging, you are full of vigor and health.

**Prerequisites:** Con 15, rage class feature.

**Benefit:** Whenever you are raging, the morale bonus to your
Constitution increases by +2. Your rage does not end if you become
unconscious. While unconscious you must still expend rounds of rage per
day each round.

## Ray Shield (Combat)

You can even deflect rays with your shield.

**Prerequisites:** Dex 15, [Missile Shield],
[Spellbreaker](../feats.html#_spellbreaker).

**Benefit:** You must be using a light, heavy, or tower shield to use
this feat. Once per round when you would normally be hit with a ranged
touch attack (including rays and similar magical effects), you may
deflect it so that you take no damage from it. Your shield suffers the
full effects of the spell or effect, if applicable.

## Razortusk

Your powerful jaws and steely teeth are deadly enough to give you a bite
attack.

**Prerequisite:** Half-orc.

**Benefit:** You can make a bite attack for 1d4 points of damage, plus
your Strength modifier. You're considered proficient in this attack and
can apply feats or effects appropriate to natural attacks to it. If used
as part of a full attack action, the bite is considered a secondary
attack and is made at your full base attack bonus –5, and adds half your
Strength modifier to damage.

## Reach Spell (Metamagic)

Your spells go farther than normal.

**Benefit:** You can alter a spell with a range of touch, close, or
medium to increase its range to a higher range category, using the
following order: touch, close, medium, and long. A reach spell uses up a
spell slot one level higher than the spell's actual level for each
increase in range category. For example, a spell with a range of touch
increased to long range uses up a spell slot three levels higher. Spells
modified by this feat that require melee touch attacks instead require
ranged touch attacks.

Spells that do not have a range of touch, close, or medium do not
benefit from this feat.

## Rending Claws (Combat)

Your claw attacks do greater harm to your enemy.

**Prerequisites:** Str 13, two claw natural weapon attacks, base attack
bonus +6.

**Benefit:** If you hit a creature with two claw attacks in the same
turn, the second claw attack deals an additional 1d6 points of damage.
This damage is precision damage and is not multiplied on a critical hit.
You can use this feat once per round.

## Repositioning Strike (Combat)

Your critical hits can move your foes where you wish.

**Prerequisites:** Int 13, [Combat
Expertise](../feats.html#_combat-expertise), [Improved
Trip](../feats.html#_improved-trip), base attack bonus +9.

**Benefit:** Whenever you score a critical hit with a melee attack, you
can move your opponent, in addition to the normal damage dealt by the
attack. If your confirmation roll exceeds your opponent's CMD, you may
move your opponent as if from the reposition combat maneuver. This does
not provoke an attack of opportunity.

**Normal:** You must perform a reposition combat maneuver to reposition
an opponent.

**Special:** You can only apply the effects of one of the following
feats to a given critical hit: [Bull Rush Strike],
[Disarming Strike], [Repositioning
Strike], [Sundering Strike],
or [Tripping Strike]. You may choose to use this feat
after you make your confirmation roll.

## Saving Shield (Combat)

You deflect attacks that could mean your ally's death.

**Prerequisite:** [Shield
Proficiency](../feats.html#_shield-proficiency).

**Benefits**: Whenever an adjacent ally is the target of an attack, you
can, as an immediate action, grant that adjacent ally a +2 shield bonus
to AC. You must be wielding a light shield, heavy shield, or tower
shield to use this feat.

## Second Chance (Combat)

Quick reflexes turn missed strikes into second chances.

**Prerequisites:** Int 13, [Combat
Expertise](../feats.html#_combat-expertise), base attack bonus +6.

**Benefit:** When making a full attack, if you miss on your first
attack, you can forgo making any other attacks for the rest of your turn
to reroll that attack at your highest base attack bonus.

## Selective Spell (Metamagic)

Your allies need not fear friendly fire.

**Prerequisite:** [Spellcraft](../skills/spellcraft.html#_spellcraft) 10
ranks.

**Benefit:** When casting a selective spell with an area effect and a
duration of instantaneous, you can choose a number of targets in the
area equal to the ability score modifier used to determine bonus spells
of the same type (Charisma for bards, oracles, paladins, sorcerers, and
summoners; Intelligence for witches and wizards; Wisdom for clerics,
druids, inquisitors, and rangers). These targets are excluded from the
effects of your spell. A selective spell uses up a spell slot one level
higher than the spell's actual level.

Spells that do not have an area of effect do not benefit from this feat.

## Shadow Strike (Combat)

You accurately strike even those you cannot clearly see.

**Prerequisite:** Base attack bonus +1.

**Benefit:** You can deal precision damage, such as sneak attack damage,
against targets with concealment (but not total concealment).

## Shared Insight

You deftly direct others' attentions where you wish.

**Prerequisites:** Wis 13, half-elf.

**Benefit:** As a move action, you can grant all friendly creatures
within 30 feet who can see or hear you a +2 bonus on
[Perception](../skills/perception.html#_perception) checks for a number
of rounds equal to your Wisdom modifier (minimum 1 round).

## Sharp Senses

Your senses are especially sharp, even for your kind.

**Prerequisite:** Keen senses racial trait.

**Benefit:** You receive a +4 racial bonus on
[Perception](../skills/perception.html#_perception) skill checks. This
replaces the normal bonus from the keen senses racial trait.

**Normal:** The keen senses trait normally grants a +2 racial bonus on
[Perception](../skills/perception.html#_perception) skill checks.

## Shield of Swings (Combat)

A wild frenzy of attacks serves to bolster your defenses.

**Prerequisites:** Str 13, [Power Attack](../feats.html#_power-attack),
base attack bonus +1.

**Benefit:** When you take a full-attack action while wielding a
two-handed weapon, you can choose to reduce the damage by 1/2 to gain a
+4 shield bonus to AC and CMD until the beginning of your next turn. The
reduction in damage applies until the beginning of your next turn.

## Shield Specialization (Combat)

You have mastered the use of one type of shield.

**Prerequisites:** Proficiency with selected shield, [Shield
Focus](../feats.html#_shield-focus), fighter level 4th.

**Benefit:** Choose one type of shield (buckler, light, heavy, or tower
shield). With the selected shield, you gain a +2 bonus to your Armor
Class against critical hit confirmation rolls. In addition, you may add
your base shield bonus (including the bonus from [Shield
Focus](../feats.html#_shield-focus) but not including enhancement
bonuses) to your CMD.

**Special:** You can gain this feat multiple times. Its effects do not
stack. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a new type of shield.

## Shield Wall (Combat, Teamwork)

You form a unified defense with those around you.

**Prerequisite:** [Shield
Proficiency](../feats.html#_shield-proficiency).

**Benefit:** Whenever you are wielding a shield and are adjacent to an
ally wielding a shield who also has this feat, the AC bonus from your
shield increases, depending on the shield wielded by your ally. If your
ally is wielding a buckler or a light shield, your shield bonus
increases by +1. If your ally is wielding a heavy shield or a tower
shield, your shield bonus increases by +2. You keep these bonuses even
if your ally loses his shield bonus due to making a shield bash attack.
If an adjacent ally with this feat uses a tower shield to grant total
cover, you also benefit if an attack targeting you passes through the
edge of the shield (*Core Rulebook*153).

## Shielded Caster (Teamwork)

Your allies cover you while you cast complicated spells.

**Benefit:** Whenever you are adjacent to an ally who also has this
feat, you receive a +4 competence bonus on concentration checks. If your
ally is wielding a buckler or a light shield, this bonus increases by
+1. If your ally is wielding a heavy shield or a tower shield, this
bonus increases by +2. Finally, if an enemy threatening you and your
ally has the [Disruptive](../feats.html#_disruptive) feat, or another
ability that increases the DC of concentration checks, the amount of the
increase is halved.

## Sickening Spell (Metamagic)

You can sicken creatures with your spells.

**Benefit:** You can modify a spell to sicken a creature damaged by the
spell. When a creature takes damage from this spell, they become
sickened for a number of rounds equal to the original level of the
spell. If the spell allows a saving throw, a successful save negates the
sickening effect. If the spell does not allow a save, the target can
make a Fortitude save to negate the sickening effect. If the spell
effect also causes the creature to become sickened, the duration of this
metamagic effect is added on to the duration of the spell. A sickening
spell uses up a spell slot two levels higher than the spell's actual
level.

Spells that do not inflict damage do not benefit from this feat.

## Sidestep (Combat)

You can reposition yourself after a foe's missed swing.

**Prerequisites:** Dex 13, [Dodge](../feats.html#_dodge),
[Mobility](../feats.html#_mobility).

**Benefit:** Whenever an opponent misses you with a melee attack, you
may move 5 feet as an immediate action so long as you remain within that
opponent's threatened area. This movement does not provoke attacks of
opportunity. If you take this step, you cannot take a 5-foot step during
your next turn. If you take an action to move during your next turn,
subtract 5 feet from your total movement.

## Smash (Combat)

You overcome obstacles by breaking them.

**Prerequisites:** [Power Attack](../feats.html#_power-attack),
half-orc.

**Benefit:** When you attack an inanimate, unattended object, you ignore
the first 5 points of its hardness. You also receive a +5 bonus on
Strength checks made to knock down or break open doors.

**Special:** The benefits of this feat do not apply to sunder attempts
or attacks against constructs, only attacks on inanimate, unattended
objects.

## Smell Fear

You can catch the sour scent of fear on the wind.

**Prerequisites:** [Keen Scent], half-orc or orc.

**Benefit:** You receive a +4 bonus on
[Perception](../skills/perception.html#_perception) checks to detect
creatures with the shaken, frightened, or panicked conditions using
scent. You can substitute your
[Perception](../skills/perception.html#_perception) skill for [Sense
Motive](../skills/senseMotive.html#_sense-motive) skill checks if the
subject has one of the previous conditions or is attempting to cover up
their fear in some way.

## Sociable

You have a way of helping others to get along.

**Prerequisites:** Cha 13, half-elf.

**Benefit:** As a move action, you grant all friendly creatures within
30 feet who can see or hear you (including yourself) a +2 bonus on
[Diplomacy](../skills/diplomacy.html#_diplomacy) checks for a number of
rounds equal to your Charisma modifier (minimum 1 round).

## Spell Perfection

You are unequaled at the casting of one particular spell.

**Prerequisites:** [Spellcraft](../skills/spellcraft.html#_spellcraft)
15 ranks, at least three metamagic feats.

**Benefit:** Pick one spell which you have the ability to cast. Whenever
you cast that spell you may apply any one metamagic feat you have to
that spell without affecting its level or casting time, as long as the
total modified level of the spell does not use a spell slot above 9th
level. In addition, if you have other feats which allow you to apply a
set numerical bonus to any aspect of this spell (such as [Spell
Focus](../feats.html#_spell-focus), [Spell
Penetration](../feats.html#_spell-penetration), [Weapon
Focus](../feats.html#_weapon-focus) [ray], and so on), double the bonus
granted by that feat when applied to this spell.

## Spider Step

Your physical mastery grants you an impossible stride.

**Prerequisites:** [Acrobatics](../skills/acrobatics.html#_acrobatics) 6
ranks, [Climb](../skills/climb.html#_climb) 6 ranks, monk level 6th.

**Benefit:** As a move action, you can move up to half your slow fall
distance across a wall or ceiling or across ropes, branches, or even
water or other surfaces that cannot support your weight. You must reach
a solid, level surface by the end of your turn or you will fall.

## Stabbing Shot (Combat)

You can clear the way to continue using your bow.

**Prerequisites:** [Rapid Shot](../feats.html#_rapid-shot), elf.

**Benefit:** When adjacent to an opponent and making a full-attack
action with a longbow or shortbow (including composite bows), you may
choose to make a melee attack against that opponent with a drawn arrow
rather than firing it. If the attack hits—whether or not it does
damage—your target is pushed back 5 feet away from you. You can then
fire arrows from your bow normally, at the original target, or at
another target within range. This melee attack replaces the extra attack
from [Rapid Shot](../feats.html#_rapid-shot), and all of your attack
rolls for the round (the melee attack and the ranged attacks) take a –2
penalty. If your initial attack leaves you with no enemies threatening
you, you can make the subsequent ranged attack or attacks without
provoking attacks of opportunity.

## Steel Soul

You are especially resistant to magic.

**Prerequisites:** Dwarf, hardy racial trait.

**Benefit:** You receive a +4 racial bonus on saving throws against
spells and spell-like abilities. This replaces the normal bonus from the
dwarf's hardy racial trait.

**Normal:** Dwarves normally receive a +2 racial bonus on saving throws
against spells and spell-like abilities.

## Step Up and Strike (Combat)

When a foe tries to move away, you can follow and make an attack.

**Prerequisites:** Dex 13, [Following Step], [Step
Up](../feats.html#_step-up), base attack bonus +6.

**Benefit:** When using the [Step Up](../feats.html#_step-up) or
[Following Step] feats to follow an adjacent foe, you
may also make a single melee attack against that foe at your highest
base attack bonus. This attack counts as one of your attacks of
opportunity for the round. Using this feat does not count toward the
number of actions you can usually take each round.

**Normal:** You can usually only take one standard action and one 5-foot
step each round.

## Stone-Faced

Rocks show more expression than you.

**Prerequisite:** Dwarf.

**Benefit:** You receive a +4 bonus on
[Bluff](../skills/bluff.html#_bluff) checks to lie or conceal your
feelings or true motives, but not to feint in combat or deliver secret
messages. In addition, the DC for [Sense
Motive](../skills/senseMotive.html#_sense-motive) checks to get a hunch
about you is 25 rather than 20.

## Stone Sense

You can feel movement in the very earth and stones around you.

**Prerequisites:** [Improved Stonecunning],
[Perception](../skills/perception.html#_perception) 10 ranks.

**Benefit:** You gain tremorsense to a range of 10 feet.

## Stone Singer

Your songs are in accordance with the ways and lands of your people.

**Prerequisites:** Cha 13, bardic performance class feature, dwarf.

**Benefit:** When you use bardic performance with audible components
underground, the range or area of your chosen performance is doubled,
and you can affect deaf creatures if they possess tremorsense and are in
your new range. In addition, the DC for saving throws against your
bardic performance is increased by +2 for creatures of the earth
subtype, regardless of where the performance occurs.

## Stunning Assault (Combat)

You powerful but imprecise attacks can stun your enemies.

**Prerequisites:** Str 13, [Power Attack](../feats.html#_power-attack),
base attack bonus +16.

**Benefit:** You can choose to take a –5 penalty on all melee attack
rolls and combat maneuver checks to stun targets you hit with your melee
attacks for 1 round. A successful Fortitude save negates the effect. The
DC of this save is 10 + your base attack bonus. You must choose to use
this feat before making the attack roll, and its effects last until your
next turn.

## Summoner's Call

Whenever you summon your eidolon, it is more powerful for a brief period
of time.

**Prerequisite:** Eidolon class feature.

**Benefit:** Whenever you summon your eidolon, you may give it a +2
enhancement bonus to its Strength, Dexterity, or Constitution. This
bonus lasts 10 minutes after the summoning ritual is complete.

## Sundering Strike (Combat)

Your critical hits can sunder your foes' weapons.

**Prerequisites:** Str 13, [Improved
Sunder](../feats.html#_improved-sunder), [Power
Attack](../feats.html#_power-attack), base attack bonus +9.

**Benefit:** Whenever you score a critical hit with a melee attack, you
can sunder your opponent's weapon, in addition to the normal damage
dealt by the attack. If your confirmation roll exceeds your opponent's
CMD, you may deal damage to your opponent's weapon as if from the sunder
combat maneuver (roll normal damage to the weapon separately). This does
not provoke an attack of opportunity.

**Normal:** You must perform a sunder combat maneuver to sunder an
opponent's weapon.

**Special:** You can only apply the effects of one of the following
feats to a given critical hit: [Bull Rush Strike],
[Disarming Strike], [Repositioning
Strike], [Sundering Strike],
or [Tripping Strike]. You may choose to use this feat
after you make your confirmation roll.

## Swap Places (Combat, Teamwork)

You are skilled at changing places with your ally during a chaotic
melee.

**Benefit:** Whenever you are adjacent to an ally who also has this
feat, you can move into your ally's square as part of normal movement.
At the same time, your ally moves into your previous space as an
immediate action. Both you and your ally must be willing and able to
move to take advantage of this feat. Your ally must be the same size as
you to utilize this feat. Your ally does not provoke an attack of
opportunity from this movement, but you provoke as normal. This movement
does not count against your ally's movement on his next turn.

## Swift Aid (Combat)

With a quick but harmless swipe, you can aid an ally's assault.

**Prerequisites:** Int 13, [Combat
Expertise](../feats.html#_combat-expertise), base attack bonus +6.

**Benefit:** As a swift action, you can attempt the aid another action,
granting your ally either a +1 bonus on his next attack roll or a +1
bonus to his AC.

**Normal:** Aid another is a standard action.

## Taunt

You may be small, but your remarks cut others down to size.

**Prerequisites:** Cha 13, Small size or smaller.

**Benefit:** You can demoralize opponents using
[Bluff](../skills/bluff.html#_bluff) rather than
[Intimidate](../skills/intimidate.html#_intimidate) (see the
[Intimidate](../skills/intimidate.html#_intimidate) skill description
for details) and take no skill check penalty for being smaller than your
target.

## Team Up (Combat)

When you are ganging up against an enemy, you can aid an ally with a
quick feint.

**Prerequisites:** Int 13, [Combat
Expertise](../feats.html#_combat-expertise), [Gang Up], base
attack bonus +6.

**Benefit:** When you and at least two of your allies are adjacent to an
opponent, you can attempt the aid another action as a move action.

**Normal:** Aid another is a standard action.

## Teleport Tactician (Combat)

You are highly alert for enemies using teleportation to approach you or
flee from you.

**Prerequisites:** [Combat Reflexes](../feats.html#_combat-reflexes),
[Disruptive](../feats.html#_disruptive),
[Spellbreaker](../feats.html#_spellbreaker).

**Benefit:** Any creature using a teleportation effect to enter or leave
a square threatened by you provokes an attack of opportunity, even if
casting defensively or using a supernatural ability.

## Tenacious Transmutation

Your mastery of the magic of changing makes your transmutations more
durable.

**Prerequisite:** [Spell Focus](../feats.html#_spell-focus)
(transmutation).

**Benefit:** The DC of caster level checks to dispel or remove your
transmutations increases by 2; even if the spell is negated, its effects
persist for 1 additional round before dissipating.

## Thundering Spell (Metamagic)

You can conjure your spells into existence with blaring thunder or
fearful shrieks, deafening creatures damaged by their effects.

**Benefit:** You can modify a spell to deafen a creature damaged by the
spell. When a creature takes damage from this spell, it becomes deafened
for a number of rounds equal to the original level of the spell. If the
spell allows a saving throw, a successful save negates the deafening
effect. If the spell does not allow a save, the target can make a
Fortitude save to negate the deafening effect. If the spell effect also
causes the creature to become deafened, the duration of this metamagic
effect is added to the duration of the spell. A thundering spell uses up
a spell slot two levels higher than the spell's actual level.

Spells that do not inflict damage do not benefit from this feat.

## Touch of Serenity (Combat)

With a single touch you can reduce the threat of even the most savage of
foes.

**Prerequisites:** Wis 18, [Improved Unarmed
Strike](../feats.html#_improved-unarmed-strike), base attack bonus +8.

**Benefit:** You must declare that you are using this feat before you
make your attack roll (thus a failed attack roll ruins the attempt). On
a successful hit, the attack deals no damage and bestows no other effect
or condition, but the target cannot cast spells or attack (including
attacks of opportunity and attacks as immediate actions) for 1 round
unless it succeeds on a Will saving throw with a DC of 10 + 1/2 your
character level + your Wisdom modifier. You may attempt a touch of
serenity once per day for every four levels you have attained (but see
Special), and no more than once per round.

**Special:** A monk of the lotus receives [Touch of
Serenity] as a bonus feat at 1st level, even if he
does not meet the prerequisites. A monk may attempt a touch of serenity
a number of times per day equal to his monk level, plus one more time
per day for every four levels he has in classes other than monk.

## Trick Riding (Combat)

You are not only skilled at controlling a horse in combat; you can make
it look like art.

**Prerequisites:** [Ride](../skills/ride.html#_ride) 9 ranks, [Mounted
Combat](../feats.html#_mounted-combat).

**Benefit:** While wearing light or no armor, you do not need to make
[Ride](../skills/ride.html#_ride) skill checks for any task listed in
the [Ride](../skills/ride.html#_ride) skill with a DC of 15 or lower.
You do not take a –5 penalty for riding a mount bareback. You can make a
check using [Mounted Combat](../feats.html#_mounted-combat) to negate a
hit on your mount twice per round instead of just once.

## Tripping Strike (Combat)

The force intrinsic to your critical hits can knock your foes down.

**Prerequisites:** Int 13, [Combat
Expertise](../feats.html#_combat-expertise), [Improved
Trip](../feats.html#_improved-trip), base attack bonus +9.

**Benefit:** Whenever you score a critical hit with a melee attack, you
can trip your opponent, in addition to the normal damage dealt by the
attack. If your confirmation roll exceeds your opponent's CMD, you may
knock your opponent prone as if from the trip combat maneuver. This does
not provoke an attack of opportunity. If you are tripped during your own
trip attempt, you can drop your weapon to avoid being tripped.

**Normal:** You must perform a trip combat maneuver to trip an opponent.

**Special:** You can only apply the effects of one of the following
feats to a given critical hit: [Bull Rush Strike],
[Disarming Strike], [Repositioning
Strike], [Sundering Strike],
or [Tripping Strike]. You may choose to use this feat
after you make your confirmation roll.

## Under and Over (Combat)

You can slip under a foe trying to grab you, knocking him off balance.

**Prerequisites:** [Agile Maneuvers](../feats.html#_agile-maneuvers),
Small size or smaller.

**Benefit:** If an opponent larger than you attempts to grapple you and
fails, you may make a trip attack as an immediate action against that
opponent with a +2 bonus. This does not provoke an attack of
opportunity.

## Underfoot (Combat)

You slip under and around your larger foes.

**Prerequisites:** [Dodge](../feats.html#_dodge),
[Mobility](../feats.html#_mobility), Small size or smaller.

**Benefit:** You receive a +4 dodge bonus on
[Acrobatics](../skills/acrobatics.html#_acrobatics) checks to move past
opponents without provoking attacks of opportunity, so long as they are
larger than you. In addition, you gain a +2 dodge bonus to Armor Class
against attacks of opportunity caused when you move out of or within a
larger opponent's threatened area (this stacks with the +4 bonus
provided by [Mobility](../feats.html#_mobility), for a total bonus of
+6).

## Vermin Heart

You have a special bond with things that creep, crawl, skitter, and
sting.

**Prerequisite:** Wild empathy class feature.

**Benefit:** You may target vermin with spells and special abilities
that only affect animals (although they are still affected by spells
targeting vermin as well). You may use wild empathy to influence vermin
as easily as you influence animals.

## War Singer

Your songs draw upon the savage chants and brutal ways of your people,
inspiring those around you to new heights of violence and savagery.

**Prerequisites:** Cha 13, bardic performance class feature, half-orc or
orc.

**Benefit:** When you use bardic performance with audible components on
a battlefield (any area where a combat involving a dozen or more
combatants is taking place), the range or area of your chosen
performance is doubled. In addition, the DC for saving throws against
your bardic performance is increased by +2 for creatures of the orc
subtype, regardless of where the performance occurs.

## Well-Prepared

Somehow, you always seem to have the right tools or supplies close at
hand.

**Prerequisite:** Halfling.

**Benefit:** Once per day, when confronted with a situation that calls
for a particular mundane item of equipment, you may make a [Sleight of
Hand](../skills/sleightOfHand.html#_sleight-of-hand) check with a DC of
10 plus the item's cost in gold pieces to “happen” to have such an item
on your person. For example, having a crowbar would be DC 12, whereas a
flask of acid would be DC 20. The item must be something you can easily
carry—if you are on foot and have only a backpack, for example, you
could not have a large iron cauldron. You cannot have magical items
using this feat, nor can you have specific items, such as the key to a
particular door. If you are stripped of your equipment or possessions,
you lose the benefits of this feat until you have at least a day to
resupply and “acquire” new items. You must pay for these items normally.

**Special:** At the GM's option, a character can substitute the
[Survival](../skills/survival.html#_survival) skill for [Sleight of
Hand](../skills/sleightOfHand.html#_sleight-of-hand) with this feat.
Such a choice is permanent.
